
 
 Modern Day, Summertime…   Rozeanna ran as fast as she could down the sidewalk, golden ponytail flying with the wind.  Her mind was counting the chimes as dark green eyes watched for any obstacles in her path that would delay her arrival to the library. It was story day. Her grandmother, the owner, would not only need her help, but was going to tell the one she had waited her whole life to hear. The tale of her own heritage, her own ancestors, and their place in history. She gave barely a wave to the shop keep, who paused the sweeping of his front porch to watch the girl dash by with shake of his head and a grin.  More importantly, it was Rozeanna’s history and legacy; it was the legend of the Golden Rose.  Up the steps her long legs flew, and she burst in the door as the last chime of the hour rang through the streets. Her eighteen years gave good claim as to her agility and speed, and she drew hard but not ragged breaths as she slowed. The kindly volunteer at the desk gave her a sympathetic smile and nodded towards the children’s section as if to say “in there.” Rozeanna gave the woman a smile of thanks, and made her way to Grandmother’s side.  “Just in time,” came the gentle reply of the older woman, dressed in full regalia of her tribe, the Navajo. “But you did not need to run. I would not have told your story without you present.”  A blush crept over the smooth cheeks of the girl, but she only nodded and kissed her grandmother’s forehead.  . “Yes, Ama’Sa’Ni.”  Taking her place at the front, she then waited patiently for Grandmother to begin. She searched the faces of the children who sat so patiently, waiting to attune to every word the kindly old woman would tell. Story hour, held every Wednesday at four. Only today, Rozeanna’s birthday, was the promise of a new adventure unlike any other. Ama, as all children called her, lifted her eyes and, after meeting each child’s own that looked to hers with eager anticipation, they fell to the thick, golden colored book in her lap. Gnarled fingers opened it to the first page. The lights were dimmed slightly, except for a single spotlight over the lady in the rocking chair. Her voice began to spread like a warm breeze would on a summer day. Slowly, the minds of the children began to visualize the scene of what they were being read, as their eyes closed. Each started to fantasize they were the hero or heroine of the book. For Rozeanna, she dreamed of being the girl of yesteryear, her great-great-great-great grandmother, who at the same age was sitting in the lodge around the fire, listening to her own Ama’Sa’Ni spin the tale of history that happened, and the destiny yet to come.  Arizona Dessert 1800′s  Long ago, when the Spanish were conquering Central America, many would cross the vast dessert that now spans the state of Arizona. They were making the journey to what is now California, in search of a new home from the foreign invaders, or to their family vineyards. It was a long and dangerous trek, over perilous mountains and through the hottest dessert known to man. Untold dangers lurked in every crevice, every shadow, from the sidewinder snake to an ambush from local tribes.  One young man, who fell victim to a raid, was carrying a tender rosebush with him to plant in his new home. As he parted quickly from this world, the plant fell to the ground when the bag was torn from his hands and split open. Seeking water, it was close enough to a cactus to root with it, and the single green shoot amidst the brown dessert produced a perfect white rose.  The two regional tribes, the Apache, meaning ‘enemy’, and the Navajo, meaning ‘Lords of the Soil’ were at war with one another. One day, a scout from each side, discovered this unusual plant. Something so beautiful, so pure could only be a gift from the gods above, and the surrounding area in which the rose grew became holy ground. Each of the people claimed it to be so, and called for a halt of the hostilities between the tribes.  But the warrior braves, whose ancestors had been in battle for so long that the original quarrel was forgotten, heeded not the words their people cried out. A prophecy was then foretold of a doom to come one as terrifying and comparable to the end of the world, should the two sides not make peace.  To their dismay, on a clear, unusually cold night, the Navajo tribe had a horrible plan-to cross the dessert, including the holy ground where the rose stood, and wipe out their enemy once in for all. The idea was born of the belief that warriors in battle who died when the sun slept, would suffer a serious fate-to haunt the lands forever and walk in darkness.  Learning of the plan, the Apache organized their warriors to meet and deal with the threat. The people of both sides were in lament, and danced in prayer for their souls as the braves left on what was sure a fool’s errand. They two tribes met, at the sight of the Gift, and started to fight.  Behold, above, in the clear night sky, came the first of many from a meteor shower, called the mosi’tsoh.(the Lion).  To those below, it was the first fire of the Great Creator’s anger to strike. And it struck true. For as the dark sky lit up with screaming streaks of white light, one slammed into the ground with a terrifying wail where the bloody battle had commenced. The intense heat from the alien rock melted everything and everyone, except, oddly enough, the cactus full of water, and its tiny charge, the blooming rose. Suddenly, the earth gave a great shudder, and a wide crack opened in the face of the scalded earth, revealing a rich vein of gold. Molten from the heat, the precious metal splashed upward, while the rose, its roots now exposed, fell within.  The next morning, the somber figures of both tribes were seen upon the gloomy dessert, each getting a glimpse of their enemy through the thick dust that choked the air as they came together on both sides of the newly formed crevice. Not a sign of their warriors remained, and where cries of war rang out mere hours before, a still silence reined that made one nearly hold their breath for fear of disturbing the ghosts of those who would forever haunt the sacred ground. The wise men from both clans climbed down one side of the rift, meeting in the middle. A shaft of light from the sun burst through the black air, its golden fingers floating through to the center of the crack as if to point. There, on a pillar of cooled molten metal extending upward like a giving hand, lay the white rose, now covered completely, perfectly, in gold, with a tiny, shining crystal in the exact center that gave off a rainbow light on the surrounding walls when touched by the sun.  Both sides knew that this was a sign from the gods, and took it quite seriously, hoping that would make up for their ignorance of the earlier gift and warning.  It was that day, as a ceremony of peace was held, that each wise man was named guardian of the sacred rose, to protect the symbol that to them, now meant peace. As each generation would grow, one member of each wise man’s family would be chosen to continue the honor. Time, marched on.  It was the arrival of the pale faces, however, that forced that tradition to change. Three generations had seen the guardianship of the rose. But, as the pale ones lusted after the golden rock, and then the golden rose for its rarity, the decision was made to hide the artifact. Pried from the Giving Hand, the two Guardian’s went to hide it. Clues were to be scattered throughout, of both Apache and Navajo, for someone to find them when it would be safe to bring the precious gift back.  Three more generations have come with the cycles of the sun. Behold, the prophecy foretold on the day of the golden rose’s departure was handed down as each potential guardian grew. The prophecy said that when the time to find the rose is at hand, the two tribes will become as one, and create the key to finding, and bringing to light, the Golden Gift once more. It was said, when this happened, the tribes, would come together as one and live in peace.  Since the rose’s departure and the white man’s permanent arrival, unrest and disbursement of the tribes began. War of a different kind came forth, and the two tribes banded together for protection. Alas, the white man’s fire weapons and numbers proved too great, and many were lost. Those who are left, are soon to be uprooted from their home, and relocated another place. There were those that continued to fight the invaders, but often with dismal results. Many, over time, began to search for the rose, in hopes it would restore peace. But the few that made it back told of clues that lead to nowhere, and back again. It seemed there was little hope of finding the Rose. Some even began to think the entire prophecy, an old wives tale; one spun by the elders, to give the younger generations hope when all seemed to be lost. There were some who thought, it simply is just not the right time for the rose to be found.  Now, only one known descendent remains, and the new prophecy yet unfulfilled. Punishment, perhaps, for the reckless deeds of warriors past, and the ignorance they demonstrated long ago.  Only time and the great creator know, and only HE and time will tell. 
 
 
   Arizona Territory 1864     The slender girl sat quietly amidst the people gathered, legs tucked neatly under her, the hem of her buffalo skin dress neatly over them, decorative fringe sweeping the ground. Elbows rested on those knees, hands clasped together and cupping the chin of her heart shaped face, the same posture at story telling since she was a girl. Expressive green eyes watched placidly as her Ama’ Sa ’Ni,’s hands weaved and bobbed in the air along with the story, making shadows on the walls of the lodge (called a Hogan) with her fingers. Dark hair fell over slim shoulders and down to her waist, shimmering in the firelight.  Today was not a normal day, however. It was the last day that she and her people would have on their ground. Tomorrow, soldiers would move them to a different home. But tomorrow’s troubles would be here soon enough. Tonight, her eighteenth birthday was being celebrated, and this, surrounded by those she loved, was how she wanted to spend it. If only the night could go on forever.  But things change readily, and as the last words of the story died in the night, and those gathered stood to take their sleeping little one-the only little one left that is, as so many have died-home, she stayed, sitting, pondering. Many placed a hand upon her as they left the lodge. Though not a word was spoken, the girl could almost feel the weight of their hopes and sorrows pinned upon her like a blanket caught in the rain.  “Star-that-Shines, come help me up,” called the older woman. At the sound of her name, Star shook her head as if to clear it, and promptly rose to do as she was bid, adding , “Yes, Grandmother.”  But the older woman put up a hand, and instead of placing it in her granddaughters as normal, she curled the fingers around the girl’s neckline, and pulled her in close to whisper.  “Tonight-my Nichoni (beautiful one), you learn who you really are,” The older lady whispered. “Go to our Hogan. You will find all our things packed and gone. You will dress warm, and wait for me there. When I call, you will come, swift as the wind, away from this place of death and doom.”  The younger girl blink as she was suddenly let go, mind whirling with what was just said. A look of pure confusion crossing her usually peaceful features. Learn who she was? Place of death? A sickening feeling rocked the pit of her stomach. The green eyes pleaded for an explanation, but none came forth.  “GO” the older woman hissed. Without further prompting, Star-That-Shines turned, and left. Hurrying through what was left of the camp to her own home, which she shared with grandmother. Pausing at the door for only a moment, she took the time to glance upward, at the vast expanse of sky. There, it was as though Father Night had painted the sky a blue-black velvet, and sprinkled it with white, twinkling diamonds. The absence of a moon only brought fourth their brilliance. She felt as tiny as the stars seemed, in the vast fabric of Time, woven by the Great Creator.  A soft call to her name brought the girl back from daydreaming. It was her one and only friend, Desert Flower, holding a bundle in the shadows. As Star-That-Shines walked closer, she was surprised to see the sleeping three year old in a papoose, snug as a bug in his blanket. Without a moment to loose, her friend slipped the papoose onto the back of Star, kissed her and the boy’s cheek, and scurried away.  Star-That -Shines did not utter a single sound, but simply turned, and flipped back the doorway her home.  It was empty, just as described. Confusion further clouded things as she stepped in, to wait instructed.  Suddenly, the blare of a trumpet, though faint, was heard just seconds later, and the camp came to life in a moment.  Star-That-Shines heart nearly leapt out of her chest. That sound could only mean one thing-soldiers! But why come at night, when expected in the morning?  “We will leave this place of death,” the words of her grandmother, echoing in her mind-the sleeping child strapped to her back. Suddenly she knew. But orders were orders-she waited. Listening to the sound of hooves and snorting horses reaching across the dessert, coming ever closer.  Finally, after what seemed like a lifetime, but was only a matter of seconds, a tall warrior came running into the Hogan, covering her with a big blanket. Ushering her out fast, Star could see a horse, saddled and ready. She was nearly thrown on its back and barely had time to adjust her weight when a smack was given to the rump of the animal, and he galloped off in a thundercloud of dust. Looking back as the horse raced forward, Star-That-Shines could see her friend, eyes wet with tears, watching her ride away. Past that, at the far end, gunshots were being heard, and the screams of the dying rang through the night. Star’s friend disappeared from sight as the horse ran down a slight slope, obscuring those that would massacre and the escapee from each other.  “Find the one with green eyes, men,” Yelled a man’s voice. “That is the one I want alive. Kill the rest.”  Screams echoed through the desert for what seemed like hours, and fell silent long before the dawn. Star-That-Shines, the child, and the horse, only the latter seemed to know where they were going, rode on.  As the first fingers of light began to stretch through and chase away the inky black sky, the brown horse with a white stripe going from nose to back of the head started to slow. All night he had carried his charges away from the devastation. All night, Star-That-Shines couldn’t hold back the tears, or temper her fears as she now faced the unknown. But the sun, filled her with wonder as she turned her face towards it as the golden ball popped over the purple mountains far off, and threw the golden light of promise about the land. A new day had indeed dawned, one that pointed to a new destiny.  Now she turned to the direction she had been riding. In front, craggy crevices, strange rock formations twisting upward, pointing to the now blue sky. She wondered, just what she needed to do next, where to go. Not a friend in the world existed for her, save the still sleeping child strapped to her back. His mother had wanted the boy saved. But how? It was likely they would die of thirst, or starve to death in this place.  Another sound of approaching hooves caused the girl to reach for the only weapon she had trained in, the bow and arrow. The pair may die, but she would die as bravely as her people had, to protect the boy so close to her heart. Aunt, he had called her-but that was another time, another place. She would defend the boy to her dying breath. But the figure on the horse, grey braids flying out behind her, and the blanket, its pattern that of a great eagle spreading glorious wings to take flight on the approaching figure shoulders, came into view. Though Star-That-Shine’s heart leapt with hope, the taunt bow string did not loosen in tension. Desserts can play tricks on the mind of the weary, and she wanted to make sure.  The approaching rider slowed, stopping a few short feet from the other. Dark eyes of her people stared to the intense greens of her own. None of the nervousness one usually would feel facing the business end of an arrow was present. Instead, calmness was the older woman’s demeanor, a quiet, steady stare, her speech.  Slowly, oh so slowly, did the shaky hands put down the arrow and bow, and a deep breath was taken, only to be exhaled in the form of a grieved cry that tore across the desert. In the space of a breath, the horse was etched closer to the other, and arms of the younger flew around the neck of the older. It was only then, that the old one’s eyes wet with tears, and encircled the young girl with her arms to comfort.  “Grandmother,” Star whispered. How did she get so far ahead?  Relief. Grief. Confusion. Anger. Endless Questions. All these emotions ran ramped through Star-That - Shines. Grandmother, held her close, and let her cry, all that she wished. After a while, Una pulled back, And looked the girl in the eyes once more.  “All is not lost, for they are in your heart,” said the soothing voice of the wise woman.  “But, Grandmother,” Stars began. “ I…it was awful to be hold. They are all gone..why? The soldiers did not have to kill everyone. And how- how did you know? Please, I am so confused.”  Una reached forward and hugged the girl once more.  “The men dressed as soldiers, but were not. They were after you, my Star-That-Shines. Somehow they know what I have always known.”  “What is that, Grandmother?” Asked the girl.  “They know, my dear, that you are part of the prophecy. One who will join with another of the opposing tribe, and create the key to find the Golden Rose.” 
 
 
 It was raining. Rain was good for the crops, unless of course the flood of Noah was to be re created, then things would be a little more hectic than the lightning that forked eerily across the sky. Each time it would flash, the light would reflect in the man’s deep indigo colored eyes. A mixture of the black of his fathers, who was Apache Indian and Irish stock, and his mothers deep blue, of French and German royal origins and bloodlines. It was also the same for his dark blonde hair and other features, the Indian just strong enough to meld with the pedigree and create a ruggedly handsome man. A good squared jaw and muscles to boot, his height, thankfully, from his fathers’ side. But Johnny West was a good man, and as anyone who knew him could attest it was so. The 6 foot, 5 inch tall rancher’s son was honest, caring and kind. Many were amazed he stayed that way after his marriage ended a few years before. She was perfect-long, silky golden hair, keen blue eyes. If only he knew then how cold and calculating she really was, he would never have tied the knot. The union of unholy matrimony ended in the same church it was founded in. Ironic, how life gives little twists and turns. But that was just the way things went at times.   Johnny’s eyes lifted towards the sky once more as he and his horse, Firewind, rode on. The newly formed, year old Arizona Territory was known for its fierce thunderstorms. In truth, as legend would have it, Johnny was indeed a fool for being out in one. But to himself, it was a test of bravery, of strength, of challenge in sorts to his Grandmother’s almighty spirit. At least if he was to be buried, Johnny thought with a smile, he wouldn’t be so far from home.  Home, in fact, was just over the next rise. More lightning revealed the spread of buildings far below in the valley that lay before him. The Golden Rose Ranch, the biggest and most successful cattle ranch for years, long before becoming a territory. A soft ‘moooo’ to his left told him the herd itself was up this way, probably sheltered under the ridge. That meant that the tap on his shoulder from the cold butt of the riffle belonged to his best friend, an adopted brother, Dakota “Running Dog” West.  “Who are you, stranger?” asked the gruff voice of the half Indian, half…well, something, no one knew what. But Johnny just grinned, and his mind wrestled with the thought of taunting his friend, or just revealing who he was. Never the less, the minutes that ticked by were tense ones.  “I am he who owns the land,” Johnny finally replied. The answer got him a swift swat with a big hand belonging to the other, bringing down the hat over Johnny’s eyes.  “You do not own the land. Jacob West Senior own land. He’s asleep at the house. I’ve seen so.  You had best be his grandson, or you will be in big trouble.” Another swat from the man at the brim of the others hat. “Again, who are you?”  “It’s Johnny, Dakota,” Finally was said after a long silence. Dakota knew it to be truth when lightning flashed to reveal the man’s somber face as the words were spoken. “Well done, in fact, not giving in. You’re promoted.”  Dakota just threw back his head and laughed. “Only when that old Crone down there passes on.  I think, Johnny, you will enter the spirit world long before that happens, eh?”  Johnny just grinned back at his kin, then looked upon the ranch once more.  “How is he?” Johnny, as he preferred to be called, asked softly. “Did he even notice I was gone?”  Dakota sobered up from his good mood at once. “Yeah, he knew. Not a half hour after you took off. He waited up all night to see if you were going to come back.” A shake of his head. “Hasn’t slept well since.  I wouldn’t expect a warm welcome,” Dakota warned.  Johnny nodded. “No more a warm welcome than you gave,” He said dryly.  Dakota grew serious in his tone, causing Johnny to look up at his brother. Lightning flashed, and the grim look had Johnny placing a hand on Dakota’s shoulders in concern.  “What, what is it?” Johnny asked anxiously.  “There has been trouble, my brother,” answered Dakota. “Many cattle have been stolen lately. Strangers have come to try and buy out grandfather. One looks like the man who killed our parents.”  The news caused Johnny’s jaw to tighten, and without further word he ’Yahhh’ed to Firewind and raced down the narrow path he knew was there. Dakota’s own horse was firmly on his heels, determined not to let his brother, whom he loved since they were three, face what was to come alone.  Jacob Robert West Sr., known as Big Jake, had seen the two on the hill, and knew in his heart exactly who was coming down at such a reckless pace. No matter how much he was relieved on the inside to see Johnny, his mind created a steel cage over the heart, and a cool demeanor took over the older man’s emotions.  “Bout time you got back,” was all he could say while leaning against the post of the wide porch on the house. “Bad night to be riding though. You’d think someone with a lick of sense about them would know that. But you never were one to stop and think, were ya, boy?” The elder man asked, turning his dark blue eyes, cold as steel, to the younger. “You always just up and offed to your likin’ and will, throwing caution to the winds.” A wrinkled old finger rose and pointed accusingly at Johnny, who had reigned in and sat still upon his horse, next to Dakota, in the wind whipped rain. “One day, that impulsiveness will get you into trouble, maybe even killed.”  “It’s good to see you too, Grandfather,” said Johnny as he finally dismounted. Dakota was instantly by his side, taking the reigns and leading off both horses to the stables and the waiting stable boy to take care of them. He was back next to Johnny quickly, and both shook off the wetness from their clothes while stepping on the porch.  The older man still leaning against the post, took in every motion they made. The two younger men would not know that in the older man’s heart, he was actually overjoyed to see the two together once more.  “Come to stay this time?” asked the older man in a casual manner.  “Well, that depends on you, doesn’t it?” Asked Johnny, taking off his wet coat. “As I recall, you were the one who suggested I leave.”  “Suggested, yes. Told you too? No.” Stated the grandfather flatly.  “True. But the ‘suggestion’ was enough,” replied Johnny sharply. “I had to clear my head, anyhow.”  “Yes, you did,” snapped the grandfather, now standing up from his leaned position and facing his grandson square in the eye. “You needed to clear your head when you met that blasted female. She nearly cost you-“  “Everything you’ve worked for, I know,” interrupted Johnny.  “Not just that. But your future, boy, and dang near your life,” added the grandfather. “Next time you start falling for a fool female, your best bet is to gallop the other direction.”  Even at Johnny’s 6’5’’ height, he had to look upward slightly to meet the man eye to eye.  “It’s a wonder, that you even met and married Grandmother,” said Johnny icily.  The older man seemed to bristle for a moment, then it seemed as the proud shoulders deflated ever so slightly.  “I love her very much,” Big Jake said quietly. “She was a very special woman.”  “And I don’t deserve the same?” Asked Johnny just as quietly.  The grandfather sighed and glanced out for a long moment to the storm, now beginning to subside in its intensity.  “I never said you don’t deserve it,” Grandfather said finally. “I just want you to be careful. What that woman-that-Annie-did to your parents, and nearly to you-all for that blasted Golden Rose. I…” the older man’s words fell off, and he stared out at a remnant flash of lightning as it jagged through the sky.  Johnny stood quietly and watched the emotions play upon the older man’s face. Fear, being the biggest emotion seen. He knew what his Grandfather had meant. Annie L’amour, as she called herself, walked into his life when things weren’t going so well. The ranch was struggling-a heard of sick cattle had been sold to Johnny’s father, Jacob West Jr., and the disease was spreading through the rest. They had to cull the herd and dispense the healthy ones temporarily to neighboring farms- who were leery and kept the herds on far off spots on their own land.  It was Annie who came along, posing as a farm veterinarian’s widow from the Texas territory and gave ideas on how to stop the heard from dying off further. Through long hours and days they spent with sick cattle, delivering calves and other work drew the two together. They married a few short months after the crisis was over, and it lasted almost a year. It wasn’t until Johnny’s father-who was sheriff of the district, came across Annie in town with a strange man and started to follow them, that things started to go wrong. It was soon discovered that Annie L’amour was a farm veterinarian’s widow from Texas- wanted in question of the man’s death. She was also a wanted woman for helping to rob graves in Georgia, her true state of origin. It was further learned that she and the man she was with were also after the legendary Golden Rose.  Something Johnny and his family new all about, thanks to his Grandmother, Rain. She was Apache, found wandering in the dessert not to far from the ranch. Delusional, near death, and needing help, the then young Jacob West Sr. cared for her. She thanked him for his kindness, as not many were kind to Indians back then, by staying on the ranch and helping Jacob get it strong. Within a few years it was one of the biggest ranches in the region. Renegades and Indians always posed a threat, but the calming peace of Rain’s presence always seemed to ward off attacks.  Who knew it would be white man, the first strike?  After Annie’s betrayal was discovered, Johnny’s heart was broken, and he began the divorce proceedings. But the tall, lovely blonde had a fierce temper, and a gang she co-ran with the man she was with, called the Golden Raiders. They were on wanted posted everywhere now-for the murder of Johnny’s parents, and the thievery of many gold mines in the south west.  In the dead of night, they stole onto the property, ransacked the house, then set fire to it. Most everyone was saved- but Rain, Jacob Jr, and his wife, Barbara, were not. If it wasn’t for his grandmother pulling him out of the fire, Johnny would not be standing there either. But as his grandfather pulled Dakota out, Rain went back in for her son and his wife. Only two minutes more, they would have lived. Things were never quite the same between Johnny and Big Jake, and was the other reason Johnny left. Now, the two were standing there, close enough to touch, yet miles of distance seemed to come between them, and an uncomfortable silence.  “I don’t blame you,” Jacob Sr . Said after what seemed like years, yet only minutes. “I love you boy. I only want what is best for you. I am sorry you left.”  Johnny held out his hand to his grandfather and smiled. Jacob shook his hand, then pulled his grandson close and embraced him fully. Dakota smiled, and was pulled into the hug as well. A rarity for men, but the meaning of family was in that embrace, and in their eyes as they quickly pulled apart.  “Let’s get Maggie to fire up some of her famous coffee,” said Jacob, turning quickly and dashing something suspiciously wet out of his eye.  “Yes, lets,” echoed Johnny and Dakota, who mimicked the old man’s movements as they walked in the door.  Maggie O’ Riley was a plump, Irish woman in her mid forties with dark hair, green eyes and the famous brough of speech. She came in from Ireland itself as a girl, and grew to be a steadfast, sweet lady back east.  Marrying into a local family, the first few years were happy ones. The couple then had a son. Sadly, he died by a swimming accident at the age of eight, when his foot tangled in weeds that pulled him under for too long. Their home in Tennessee was just too much to bear with out the boy’s presence and laughter.  That, and the restlessness of her husband of ten years, Timothy O’ Riley, brought them out west. Poor Tim was overcome with the fever and died from lack of proper water in the forsaken dessert, and Maggie nearly dead herself when Jacob found her. Maggie was offered a position after cooking breakfast when she recovered and had stayed ever since. Her days were joyous ones, helping to look after the energetic Johnny and Dakota over the years. She still looked upon them as her ‘charges,’ even though they were now grown men in their very early twenties.  It explained easily why she gave a great cry of relief to see all three men come through the door.  “Land sakes and blessing my soul!” went the echo through the house. “Saints be praised. My boy has come home.”  “Hello Maggie,” said Johnny, and the men grinned while he scooped the woman up like cotton and swung her around the room. “It’s good to see you too.”  “Johnny! John Christopher West, put me down. You’re soaked to the bone, and unlessin’ I fix yeah up some of my famous coffee and you have some supper and dry clothes, sick is what you’re fixin’ to be.” Maggie protested, but laughingly, as she was spun around. Quickly Johnny set her on her feet, and the lady feigned a grumpy stare, which lasted about two seconds as Johnny and Dakota blew her a kiss before sitting at the table. Breaking into peels of high spirited laughter, Maggie went over to the giant brick oven and began assembling three trays of food, grumbling good naturedly the whole time.  “An unruly lot, indeed, the three of them,” the trio heard her say. “Commin’ in here, muddying up my newly cleaned floors with their boots, wet to the bone and fixin’ to catch their death. Typical of men, it seems.” And the grumbling went on for quite some time, until at least a warm meal and fresh coffee was in front of them.  It was after they ate, that John sat back to sip his coffee and contemplate. Much progress had been made in the span of a few minutes. He wanted to tell his grandfather about the things he found, the clues to the legend that had intrigued him as a boy. Grandmother was full of stories to tell, but it was the papers she had, hidden somewhere in the house, that gave proof to her claim. She herself was the daughter to one chosen as the last guardians of the Rose. Her father had left with the rose and another from the Navaho tribe, never to be seen or heard from again. Heartsick, Rain had gone with a few others to search, only to be driven back by white men, dead ends and cold trails. One particular search had the small posse attacked by bandits. Rain was the only survivor, but barely. It was at that time when Jacob had found her, nursed her, and fell in love. It was that love, which cost Rain her own life, by trying to save their son.  “Did you hear me, boy?” asked his grandfather, snapping Johnny out of his daydream. “I asked where you have been the last three years.”  “Well, Grandfather, I…well, I went out searching, actually.” Johnny replied.  For a moment, that dead silence rang through the house, and all eyes were on Jake.  “You went looking for that dang Golden Rose, didn’t you,” he finally asked.  “Yes. I did, actually,” Johnny replied, looking the older man in the eye. “and I found a few things.  A few things you’d be interested in,” he added.  “Well, I’m not getting any younger, my boy, so, tell us. What did you find?” Stated Jacob casually.  For a moment, Johnny hesitated. Was his grandfather mocking him? He knew it was not the older man’s favorite subject, since Grandmothers death. But, He also knew that it was Rain’s passion, and in her honor he would do what he can to learn of her people, their heritage, and his great-grandfather.  “I found out, that there are clues hidden in simple things, like the trees, for example, or rock formations” Johnny finally said. “I went to the North first. There is a great Canyon up there. So full of life. So rich in ancient history. I found the symbol of the golden rose up there. I found it, in the trees called Ponderosa Pines. They have an orange bark, visible where the black lines where the bark splits. Long needles grow in tufts on the tree.” He leaned closer. “I found signs of the Apache there, and in the tree, I found this.”  He handed Jacob a small, roughly oval shaped piece of bark, a small symbol , resembling a ‘y’ carved in it.  “The first clue was the Saguaro Cactus. There was something strange-a Navaho symbol, carved into the Cactus. It was a circle, with four small rectangles inside of it, and a black mark, pointing west in the center.” John explained.  “Was there another clue?” asked Dakota, speaking for the first time since the arrival on the porch to face the elder West.  “Yes. One we all know well,” Johnny stated, giving a heavy sigh. “The symbol of an owl.”  “Death,” stated his grandfather.  Johnny nodded. “Death, or disease.”  “Or maybe it means the end. Do you think that is were the final resting place is?” Asked Dakota. “Of the fabled rose?”  Jacob Sr. shook his head. “Not necessarily, Dakota. They could have done this to throw people off.  To throw the white eyes off,” he said specifically. “I don’t know if they never made it or not. But even if one guardian died, the other would have continued to do so, for as long as the rose existed.”  “The symbol was pointed West,” Johnny remembered. “As in Nevada territory, and California. But we lucked out on finding those two symbols. How would we find another?”  Jacob Sr. Grinned. “You do not remember what your grandmother told you? Straight as the crow flies. If you go back to where you found the symbols, and went straight-I bet you will find yet another, or maybe the rose itself. There are also the riddles. You know them,” he said, looking at one young man, then the other.  “Grandmother Rain used to recite them to you as children. It is more, much more, than a child’s rhyme.”  Dakota and Johnny looked at each other, both trying to recall the words anything and everything that grandmother had sung to them. Some of the words slowly dawning in their minds, taking on new meanings.  “You know, Johnny, this is the first time anything has really been found. It is said, that when the time was right, things would indeed be revealed.” said Jacob Sr. after watching the two and their expressions after reliving old memories. “I also am beginning to think, Rain was right, my boy,” said Jacob Sr, looking in his face. “She had long said, that you were part of the prophecy.”  A pin dropping to the floor would have been much, much louder at that moment. 
 
 
 Tumbleweeds scattered by as Star-That-Shines, her Grandmother and the now sleeping child strapped to Star’s back made way towards the white mountains, which loomed off in the distance. But the mountains brought no joy to her heart for so many questions were whirling in her mind. How can all this be? Are the people wrong about so many things?   “You are lost in thought,” Grandmother said quietly.  The gentle voice, snaked through Star-That-Shine’s haze and she shook her head to clear it.  “Huh? I am sorry, I did not hear you.” She said to the elder lady.  “My point,” the older woman said simply. The dark eyes drifted over towards the younger woman’s, and she then fell silent for a moment.  “The time has come to reveal things to you that you do not know,” she finally said, and gave a soft command to the horses to stop in a slightly shady spot.  “The first is, I am not you’re ama’sa’ni, your grandmother. I am your Chiricahua. Aunt. Moon-of –Night-Sky.”  Star’s eyes widened, and her mouth hung open in shock for a full moment.  “My aunt?” she finally managed to say.  “Yes. Aunt. Your mother , Rose-In-Sun, was my younger sister by a generation. She fell in love with your father, who was an French-Irish trader of items for the U.S. Government. Our Mother and Father, Running Fox and Silver Wing, along with your parents, were killed by gunmen on your first birthday. They were able to bring you to me, and lead the men on a chase through the desert for three days before they went to the creator.”  Shock wasn’t the word for what Star felt. Blinking several times, even shaking her head and letting the long dark hair fly. None of it worked to let what had been told sink in.  “Why?” was the only question she could ask.  “Our Grandmother, your great grandmother, was one of the last to guard the Golden Rose. She, and a man from the Apache, were the ones who left to hide it. Grandfather taught our mother the story. It was always said that the tradition of choosing a guardian should be passed down, for when the Rose returns.’  A little sigh from the older lady. “White men believe if they can end the tradition, end the guardians, they stand a better chance to find it.”  It was hard for this to sink in, indeed. Star looked up at the endless blue sky over head, and Father Sun as it continued its journey west. “Is there more?” she asked quietly.  “Yes.” The reply was simply stated. “Your Indian name is Star-That-Shines. This you know. But your white name, given by your Father, is Summer Rose Brennan. It is the name you must use now. “  “Summer Rose Brennan,” the younger girl repeated, trying to get used to the foreign name.  “Your Father was a wealthy man. There is money for you, in the Bank of California. We will travel there, and claim it. You are now to live as a white woman,” explained the elder lady sadly. “One more thing. You are not to refer to me from here on, as Aunt, or relation, while in earshot of others. I am your faithful servant.”  Summer opened her mouth to protest, then closed it. What could she really say, after learning all this?  It was a shock enough to see what had happened to her people. But to learn that you are not who you thought you were all your life-but someone else entirely, was another. Add the treatment of one you love, as though they were a servant? Her eyes lifted once more to the great sun, and she spied an Eagle as it flew effortlessly above. The great cry of the bird echoed through the valley, and she lowered her head.  The Eagle, to her people, was the symbol of the Great Creator. His appearance at this time told Summer that all Moon had revealed was true. Lowering her deep greens now to the ground, she whispered.  “As the Creator demands, so it will be done.”  Moon nodded and clicked to the horses to be on the way once more.  “We must reach our destination by night fall,” Moon said simply.  “What is our destination, Grand-Ah, I mean, Aunt?” Summer asked.  “I do not know,” replied Moon. “But we follow the White Mountains. It is where the Eagle goes, so must we.”  Summer nodded. The toddler strapped to her back stirred a tiny bit, but did not yet awake. She felt sorry for the boy, and wondered how the three of them will survive.  “What of Hunter Wolf?” Summer finally asked of the boy.  “He will be safe,” replied Moon. Turning her head to look at the younger girl, whose brow was furrowed in question.  “When we get there, we will know,” came the simple reply.  Summer nodded, and the trio rode on towards the safety of shade that was offered on the White Mountains to make camp.  Sitting by the fire late that night, Hunter Wolf, fed and fast asleep in his blanket next to her, Summer lifted her eyes skyward once more. The bright stars twinkled like diamonds against a canopy of velvet black. The ancestors looked down on their people, it was said, the twinkling stars their windows , or in some cases, their eyes. To watch over, to protect their loved ones from evils of the night. Would anyone be able to save her, the three of them, from this nightmare? And California? So many people…  Many questions whirled in the girl’s mind. Many thoughts, much confusion. How could something like this not be told sooner? Then, as memory came to life from her musings, she suddenly knew. Many white man, others, came to the camp, some friendly, some with evil intent, some outright hostile. They were all in the wanting to find the Golden Rose. Somehow, it was found out that she was believed to be a key in the prophecy for finding it, and many started hunting her. Maybe that is why Moon, posing as her grandmother, covered her body with a lotion of cocoa butter to darken her skin, and washed her hair with special berries? Was black even the true color? But as the Indian children who played were under scrutiny for one different from them, many did not realize the girl they sought was under their very nose. It was all in the effort to protect her. And for the first time, she was very unsure of who she really was.  Her troubled thoughts continued, even as she slept. Her mind played the scene of her parents, grandparents death of long ago, something she saw, but being the age of one, did not remember. One hand instinctively went to find the slender chain hidden under her clothing, and traced the small golden rose suspended on the chain. So many sacrifices, for one small item. So many deaths for its monetary value. How can such an item, when it has such destruction all around it, be the symbol of peace the legends claim it to be?  Dakota, Johnny and his grandfather sat up half the night discussing the possible meaning of the owl, and the possible location of the rose in the great canyon the symbols were found near. It was Johnny himself, however, to climb the stairs and slowly push open the trap door to the attic the next morning. He hadn’t been to this part of the house really, since even before the fire. A calloused hand ran over the wood beams that still held the scorch marks from the blaze. For a moment, Johnny wondered why his grandfather hadn’t fixed, repainted, done something to erase the mark. But, standing there in that huge attic full of memories, perhaps it was testimony, like everything else in here, to the times the house and those that dwell within had seen. Slowly his deep indigo eyes roamed over every nook and cranny, every trunk and box. With a small smile, he headed over to the carved rocking horse his father had made when he was a small boy, around five or six. There was a matching one, for Dakota beside it. How father and Mother loved Dakota as their own. He was found out not far from where they now stood, acquired land to the ranch. A tribute to Dakota’s slaughtered parents he was found near, and their graves in a simple, small cemetery for the two.  Johnny turned his head and studied the manikins, their headless bodies sticking out from under the sheet which covered them. They were mothers. A woman from the east, Boston to be precise, longing for adventure on the wild frontier. It was what led her to answer an advertisement for a wife. She was one of the lucky ones, actually falling in love with the man she chose. For a moment, Johnny could see her sitting next to the headless forms, sewing away on a new shirt for this one, or dress for herself. A lift of the sheet confirmed what he already knew- the half made dress on one manikin, never to be finished, and burnt on one side. Another testimony to the tragic end of a beautiful life.  Dropping the sheet, Johnny turned towards the trunks. One of them, a soft beige color was adorned with the symbol of a rose painted in gold. Grandfather’s handiwork at carving, painting, was evident in the fine detail. The latch, a giant golden rose itself, had a button in the center. A faint ‘click’ and the top of the chest sprung open, revealing what he already knew lay inside. Tucked away in the old dress of yesteryear, were three pages, with various symbols, and meanings, all in Apache. The one symbol missing, was the owl. His brow furrowed as he thought about the symbol once more. Something in what Dakota had said-the death of one thing, the beginning of another-rang a bell. He had heard something similar long ago, but the moment fleeting, teasing the edges of his mind  “Come on Johnny, gotta get yourself together,” he whispered to himself, hands searching through the clothing for more clues. But as always, he came up empty. “I know you have more. Reveal to me your secret,” he whispered to the trunk.  Of course, there was no answer. Or was there?  A frustrated kick of his foot brought Johnny the answer he sought. For so long, the small drawer on the bottom nearest his foot was stuck. A hollowed out, secret place, made in order to keep valuables safe.  But it wasn’t the jewels that he was after. Moving those to the side, the neat, folded up papers made him smile. Could they be? The missing symbols, the clues written by his grandmother so long ago? He had seen it once, as a boy. But so many times raiders would come, or someone inquiring-that the papers became a secret, then a myth that only a few knew truly about. But now, as he unfolded them slowly, the secrets came to life once more.  Johnny crossed over to the window and looked. There upon the pages, symbols in Apache, used by the secret guardians of the rose itself. His Grandmother’s father, his own great Grandfather, was the last to have seen it alive. But he left behind the symbols, in case a time would come for guardians to be chosen again.  He wished he could find the Navaho portions. His limited knowledge of the language would help-but these were invaluable. His eyes searched, and stopped at the symbol of the owl. Death, rebirth. Hope.  The death of an era, the birth of something new. The hope, of the people. Johnny sat back and sighed. As much as these symbols confirmed what he, Dakota and Grandfather surmised, it still held no clue as to the whereabouts of the Rose. A glance to his other hand, holding the circular symbol. It must be Navaho, he thought, and he prayed reverently that it held the key to this riddle. Gently placing the jewels back into the hidden drawer, and pushing it shut, Johnny stood, and glanced around the large room full of memories, smiled at the old ghosts he felt were present, and went down the stairs once more.  “Grandfather,” Johnny called out. “Where are you? I found something very important.”  No answer.  “Dakota?” Johnny then called.  No answer.  His brow furrowed, and that prickly feeling raised the hairs on the back of his neck. As big a man he was, Johnny easily walked without making a sound. A trait he easily discovered and mastered when sneaking to raid the cookie jar at night. The house seemed a little too quiet for this time of the day, and he knew by instinct and the long ingrained schedule to his memory that it was time for his grandfather to be back at the house for lunch.  Turning the corner, Johnny peeked down the hall to the front door. It was there he could see the older man, and by his posture, trouble was brewing. With lightening speed, Johnny shoved the papers into his pocket and shot down the hall through the door.  “Whada want?” asked Jacob Sr. in a grave voice.  “What we always want Jacob,” came a sour reply with a hint of a southern draw. “We want you to be sellin’ us this land of yours. Give you a right nice price for it too.”  “I ain’t sellin,” replied Jacob. “My answer is the same every time you boys make an appearance. No. What would I sell my land for? Go and get your own!”  Johnny stepped around his grandfather, and faced down the two men on rather sickly looking horses. The riders themselves didn’t look all that healthy either, for that matter. Both were skinny as a rail, hats with holes pushed down over their heads, and wore long, dirty black trench coats. Definitely the kind of characters you didn’t want to hang with.  “The man gave you his answer,” Johnny said acidly. “Now, get goin.”  “An’ who might you be?” asked the younger man of the two.  “Not your business,” Jacob snapped. “You heard the boy. You have your answer, so you need to git.”  Johnny glanced upward as his ears caught the soft sound of a click, and spotted Dakota, lying on a stack of hay in the barn upper window, riffle pointed and ready, just in case.  “All righty, no need to sick your injun on us,” said the older one, who followed Johnny’s gaze. “We are a goin’. We will see how your answer will be next month. Oh, by the way, have any cattle left?” the man said with a smirk.  “Plenty,” came the short, snappy reply. Jacob’s own riffle raised and pointed at the two. “Now Git off my land.”  Both men nodded and tipped their hats. Without another word, they turned and urged the tired old horses away with the cruelty of a whip smack to their hind quarters.  “Lousy Varmint,” muttered Jacob, lowering his riffle and turning to go back inside. 
 
 
 “How often does that occur?” asked Johnny, following his grandfather inside.   “They pop by every so often,” his grandfather replied, placing the gun back in its spot, resting on two hooks over the door. “I don’t keep track of when they come.”  “Twice a month,” Dakota growled as he walked through the door.  Johnny gave a low growl. “Twice a month too many.”  All three men nodded as they made their way into the living room and sat down. Maggie came bustling in, and immediately started pouring a strong coffee for the three.  “Grandfather,” Johnny said excitedly,” I found something that I know you will remember. I finally figured out how to open it,” He added.  Jacob took the papers from his grandson and leaned back, taking a long swallow from the glass Maggie handed him. The man’s eyes widened, however, when he saw what was on the page.  “Land sakes,” sputtered the man. “I haven’t seen these since, since-“  “Since I turned thirteen,” finished John.  The older man nodded, and his glass now set aside, he looked over the papers. The emotions on his face were actually fascinating to the other two men to watch. Several minutes ticked by, broken only by the rustling of the papers in the man’s hands.  “Well done, my boy. Well done,” Jacob finally exclaimed. “Rain never told me where she hid these things. To protect us all, I suppose. I wish she were alive now,” he added softly.  Again all three men nodded in agreement. The house was not the same, it seemed, without her positive spirit, her very presence. If only the part of the roof that collapsed had waited another minute to do so, all three would be alive today. But fate always has a plan.  A bit of time passed by as the older man studied over and over the papers in his hand. Each Dakota and Johnny quietly sipped their drinks, watching, waiting for the older man to speak. Jake finally drew a breath to say something when a commotion broke out in the yard. Thinking it was the two men once again, all three jumped to their feet, grabbing guns and running out the door.  The sight that met their eyes, however, was far from what they thought they’d see.  Two women, weary looking, one with a squalling child on her back in a papoose, were coming up towards the house. It was clear they had traveled far, and with little water. The blanket around the younger one seemed to have kept her from sun exposure, but the older woman looked as though she was about to fall off the horse. They also looked a bit roughed up.  “Please, help us,” said Summer weakly, as the tired out horse stopped in front of the porch. Johnny suddenly leapt into action, bounding down the set of steps with one leap, and was beside the horse-just in time to catch the young woman as she indeed, slid off the horse.  Dakota was off towards the older woman, and Jacob lowered his riffle and started shouting orders.  “Bring them in to the house. Maggie! Get out here and take care of the child. Günter!” He hollered for the stable boy. “Take these horses and see they are taken care of. It will be a wonder if we can save them,” he muttered.  “Sir! Yes sir!” yelled out Günter as he took the reins. The horses followed without resistance to the barn.  Johnny and Dakota wasted no time in getting the two ladies on a couch in the living room in the shade and start inspecting each for wounds. Who were they, where had they come from? What were they doing out here with a small child, and no water? They were Indian, that was plain to see, though the younger girl looked possibly a mix. John also stared at his hand as he wiped a swath of the girl’s hair from her face, and a streak of black lay across it. Blood? No, it did not smell like blood. It actually looked like some kind of dye. Something he would surely inquire about when his unexpected guests would wake, but for now, being able to awaken and answer those questions was his concern.  “Navaho,” Dakota said softly, as he inspected the older lady for injuries. “Lashes, Jake. Like from a whip. The dress is torn, but the blood has stopped.” A moment later, as if on cue, Maggie appeared with a bowl of warm water and a sponge. In no time, Dakota was cleansing the wounds as gently as he could.  Summer’s eyes fluttered open after a few minutes, and she gave a soft moan. Turning slightly sideways, John could see the slash mark also across her back through a rip in her dress and slightly encrusted with blood. He swore an oath that would have gotten his ears boxed by his grandmother, and called for Maggie to bring him a basin of water and cleansing sponge too.  “Who did this?” Johnny asked the room more than to himself.  “Two men on horses, an hour from here,” Summer replied weakly.  Johnny nearly dropped the sponge. “Tall, Skinny, shoddy looking fellas?”  “Yes,” she replied.  Johnny swung his hand holding the sponge quickly over the basin so he did not get water on the girl, and tightened his grip mercilessly on the sponge. The image of the two that were here earlier demanding a sale of the land sprung to mind.  “What would they want to do this to two innocent women for?” Johnny asked through clenched teeth. “Was that child hurt too?”  Summer shook her head. “No,” she whispered. “They wanted to rob us. When found we had nothing to steal, they whipped my grand-I mean, my aunt. Only one lash to me, below Hunter Wolf’s legs. Aunt Moon shot one with an arrow before they could get another in. They then took off.”  John grinned despite his anger. “Put an arrow into him, huh? Good.” He looked down at the young woman, and then the stain on his hand. “What were you three doing out in the desert anyhow? It is pretty hot out there, and wicked cold at night.”  Summer wasn’t sure what to answer, and instead gave a sigh and closed her eyes, giving the appearance that she had passed out once more.  Her mind whirled. If it wasn’t for the ranch being there, they surely would not have survived. The wounds weren’t life threatening, but passing out from the pain as they did, the heat, the sand-surely would have been. She gave a shudder, and Johnny cursed himself, thinking he had hurt her while trying to gently finish cleaning her wound. The soothing motion caused her to relax. She did not know of these people, but the care they gave to the three strangers who now entered their lives spoke volumes of the kind of people they were. For now at least they were safe, cooled from the heat and soothed from the pain.  For the first time in a long time, Summer allowed her guard to be down, and slept.  It was a day and a half later before she next awoke. Startled awake actually, but the softest sound on the floor. Quick as lightning she sat up, and prepared to throw whatever it was she could grab off the nightstand next to her. Only the sight of her Aunt stayed her hand.  “Gra..I mean, Aunt,” She whispered softly, placing the object back down on the table. “I was startled. Forgive me.”  “A dream,” the older woman said, matter of factually.  “Yes..I was having a dream. And something woke me.” Summer replied.  The sound of water being poured in a basin was heard, and when she turned, Moon had a bowl of the cool liquid in her hand. “I woke you, Star-That-Shines. You have slept longer than I. Almost two days.”  “TWO DAYS?” Star exclaimed, nearly horrified. “Oh, I am sorry Chiricahua. I ..oh, where is Hunter Wolf?”  “Calm, calm.” Said the older lady, placing the basin on the side table and looking her niece in the face.  “Hunter Wolf is well, fed, and happily playing. A woman who cooks, named Maggie, has cared for him since his arrival. He has always been good, and she is good with him. Brings her joy, he does.”  Summer’s smile turned to a frown, as she thought of her friend, the boys mother. She went a bit limp, allowing the older lady to sponge bathe her. “I am glad he is happy, in the face of sadness of loosing his mother.”  “Do you know for sure, that all is lost for him?” the aunt asked.  “But those men-“Summer began to protest.  “Yes. Many are dead, to be sure. But who is dead? A different matter entirely.” Aunt Moon Said.  Summer nodded in agreement. That was a fact she could not argue, and who died was up to the Great Creator, not her. “I hope she will be found and the two reunited,” Star said softly.  “Yes. But for now let us be grateful that happiness is in the child’s life.” Stated her aunt.  Summer nodded. “Yes, Aunt.”  “I have come to talk to you about these people,” Stated Aunt Moon as she took a brush and started brushing Summer’s hair. “For now, I think it would be wise to say little as possible. Say soldiers wrecked the village, and we escaped. Claim Hunter Wolf as yours-say you are captive of the Navajo, from a raid long ago. And are being returned. Ransomed.”  Summer’s eyes flew open in shock. “What? Why such a lie? Or..or am I really a captive of a raid?” She was indeed bewildered. But the words spoken ‘you will learn who you really are..’ spun in her mind. Did the Navajo, as so many tribes have done, kidnap her from a raid on her family somewhere, to raise her as their own? Wait, that couldn’t be true. Her aunt had told her the story of her parent’s murder at the hand of marauders. Then again, she could be lying. It was getting more and more confusing as to who she really was. Star shuddered at the thought and sent up a silent prayer that it was not so.  “No.” Came her aunt’s voice sternly, as if reading her thoughts. “I have told you. Do you forget already? You are part of the Dine’ the People, those now called Navajo. Also you are part of the white man.”  You are the hope for peace, according to the legacy. But for now, the lie is necessary as we do not know who these people are.” She held up a hand as Summer began to protest. “Yes, they have shown kindness. But you should know trickery of White Men by now.”  Summer nodded. “It is a shame, that I now have to learn to be one of them.”  Moon nodded. “There are SOME who are pure of heart,” she told her niece, as her voice softened just a little. “Just as all Indian are not good, not all white men are bad. But, to learn the difference we must. Until then, as little information as possible you tell, and sometimes, a lie. And yes, as a white woman you will learn to live.” A pat to the girls head, as the brush dipped in water took away the black in her hair, to reveal its true color. “And you must always adapt, and teach your children to do so, in order for all too truly survive.”  Summer nodded, and said nothing. She was shocked by the difference in her appearance as her true hair color was revealed. Gone was the dark wash from the berries that Moon of the Night Sky used. Replaced by a much lighter color with a reddish tint, a light auburn to be exact. Her face had not been made up in paint as it had been every day since she could remember, revealing a slightly golden complexion with delicate, light brown spots on her nose. Freckles, she had heard someone call them on a stranger who came to the village long ago. A hand reached up to touch her face, to feel the smooth skin. A frown then followed as a dress of unfamiliar material and origin rested over the arm of the chair in front of a small vanity. Touching the material, feeling the cool silk beneath her fingers. She blinked, noticing the white  undergarments. Was she to wear this as well?  Oh yes, she found out, and quickly.  “Where did this come from?” Summer finally managed to whisper.  Moon in the Night Sky paused to look at the lovely vision before her. A tear came to her eyes.” So much like her mother, with the mixture of her father done well,” she thought. Out loud, she said, “The Great Spirit made you beautiful, my dear. More than we thought. And this,” turning she picked up the light rose dusk colored dress, hugging it dearly. “It was in my saddle bag. It belonged to her, your mother, the first wedding gift from your father.”  Summer gasped at this revelation, and was speechless as the undergarments were placed upon her, and then the dress. The young woman in the mirror was unrecognizable. Moon just smiled, as the necklace hidden for so long was now visible. Summer’s delicate fingers traced the tiny golden rose pendent on the end of a chain.  “Was this Mother’s too?” Summer asked breathlessly.  “No. This was forged from the same gold of the Giving Hand that held the Golden Rose,” Moon explained. “It was passed down from guardian to guardian. When my father left, he decided to leave this behind. There is one more, belonging to his companion. It is said to be part of the key.”  “Part of the key,” whispered Summer. “Just like me. A complicated key it is, made of so many parts. And that is if we can ever find it to begin with.” A soft little sigh escaped her lips.  “Time reveals all things, when it is the right time for it to be discovered,” answered Moon. “We do not know when. Perhaps you will be an old woman when it is discovered? Or perhaps, we find it tomorrow. One day we will know for sure.” A pat to the younger girls’ shoulders. “But rest assured, your eyes will lay upon the sacred rose one day. For now,” Moon said as she stood, “We must go, and eat. Also, we must thank our gracious host.”  Summer nodded, and rose, ready to face what would come her way. 
 
 
 It was a crowd of three men that stood at the bottom of the steps and stared at the lady who descended the stairs. Confusion and admiration was in their faces-didn’t they bring in two Indian women and a baby? Never the less, chivalry was alive in those days, and Jake and Dakota moved forward to take the arms of the ladies and escort them to the dinning table.   “I am grateful for your kindness,” Summer said as she was seated at the table. “You have saved our lives, me and my Chiricahua-aunt. And my son,” She added quickly. “How is he?”  The senior Jacob raised an eye brow. Son? He wasn’t sure, but, he thought the girl far to young to have a near four year old child, especially one that looked nothing like her. However, some tribes had strange customs.  “The boy is doing well,” Jacob said, taking his own seat. He cries little, mostly at night by bedtime. But that is understandable, considering the circumstances.” Jacob leaned forward. “I am sorry of the men you encountered. If they are the same, they are ones that were here just before running across the two of you. Ruffians.” A glance over to Moon in the Night Sky. “My congratulations again, Madame. It had to have been fine shooting. I wish to have seen it myself.” A smirk. “and I wish I knew if it finished that varmint off. To accost women-“A shake of his head. “I have told my ranch hands to shoot on sight for their next visit.”  “That is appreciated,” Said Moon.  “How is it you have learned English so very well?” Dakota asked, then pointed over to Summer. “She was dressed as a Navajo, same as you.”  “IT is not polite to point at guests, especially a lady,” snapped Jacob, and Dakota dropped his hand and lowered his eyes.  “It is alright,” Summer said gently. A glance to Moon, whose eyes bid her to tell as discussed, she drew In a deep breath. “I am told that I was part of a white family in a settlement south of here. They were raided-all were killed. I was three, and must have wandered off, fortunately. My father found me, and brought me to the settlement. Since his death, my Aunt, Moon in Night Sky, has raised me.”  “And the English? “ asked Dakota once more. “And the boy?”  “Missionaries,” replied Moon. “Came in to teach white man’s language. Laws. Ways,” chimed her gentle voice. The deep eyes looked to Dakota’s a moment, as if daring him to challenge her words. He did not.  “Hunter Wolf is my son. I was married to a warrior, killed in battle last year with soldiers,” Summer explained. “The camp we lived in was being relocated to a reservation. I..I decided to find my roots, find my family.”  There was an uncomfortable silence at the table as each wrestled with their own feelings on this revelation.  On one side, the Indian side, they could understand the position of the people. Loss of land, murder of children, starvation, deals gone awry with the U.S. Government. It was the direct cause of such rage towards and raids on many settlers. On the other hand, they felt for their white ancestors and people. Terror of a new land. Many kind hearted, many innocent, caught up in an endless battle that caused their death by an otherwise peaceful people. It was a horrible thing to be of both races sometimes, and often caused one to be at war with themselves.  “Well,” Jacob finally said, breaking the silence. “It is good to try to discover ones roots. I have often said that to both these boys here. Take Dakota for example,” Jacob said, nodding to the younger man on the right.  “Indian, yes. Not sure what tribe. Some say Cherokee, some say Lakota Sioux. He was three when he was found, not to far from here, wandering. We found his parents a mile away. Ambushed. But what or whom, we never found. So the boy grew up here, as Johnny’s brother. I told him one day he needed to find his roots, find out about his people, as well as enjoying the life he has now.” Jacob leaned forward. “There is no shame, at least on my part, for being Indian. Jake’s father, my wife, were Indian. My wife, was Apache, in fact.”  Summer gave a glance over to her Aunt, then a glance at the man at the head of the table. He loved an Apache?  That was an interesting piece of news. She wondered where the woman was now, and what had happened to make her not be present. Many questions filled her mind, and she absently touched the pendent around her neck. It was a movement not lost on Johnny, who had been very quiet, studying the strangers and the tales they told. He had been duped once by a female, and that was one time to many. The rose drew his interest, and his eyes narrowed. Were they too, a part of deceptive people, after the Golden Rose? It wouldn’t be the first time. And their arrival, not so far after the two hoodlums came to his door. For a moment, Johnny’s mind began to draw suspicions and conclusions without hard proof.  “That’s a lovely pendent,” Johnny commented finally. “Strange, that the Navaho would allow you to wear such a fine trinket of a white mans’ world, if you were captive for so long in theirs.”  Summer hesitated, but only slight. “Mr. West, “She began, but Aunt Moon interrupted.  “My brother was the one who found her,” Moon said. “The girl had the necklace on her. Her mothers, I would think. I kept it so it would it would not be stolen. When it was agreed she should be returned, so was the trinket.”  “Well, that explains the trinket. What about the dress? Not something any tribe just…has. Nor is it really possible to pick one up in the desert.”  Jacob gave his grandson a glaring look, but remained quiet. The treatment of a lady was always under scrutiny, but the questions were fair. He’d like to know himself.  “From a previous raid,” Moon easily replied. “We knew she would be returned soon. Had to have something to dress in when we get to California.”  “I see.” Johnny said, shaking his head. The group again fell into a bit of an awkward silence as the meal was being served. Hunter Wolf was also added to the table near Summer, who happily hugged the boy.  The tension eased with the toddlers’ antics to call attention and his clear, sweet laughter that became infectious to the adults. The rest of dinner and dessert was indeed more delightful than the beginning of the meal, and conversation revolved mostly around the child and idle chatter. Afterward, everyone adjourned to the parlor to pick up the more serious discussion. Hunter Wolf, was brought upstairs, with no protest, to have a bath.  “Miss Maggie does well with Hunter Wolf,” Summer commented.  “As well she should,” Replied Jacob, settling into his favorite chair. “She raised one of her own-well, until he passed on early in life. She also cared for these two hellions,” he told her, nodding towards Johnny and Dakota.  Moon nodded as she settled upon the sofa near Summer. “Had her hands full then,” was the reply.  “You certainly have a way of putting things,” replied Jacob with a smile.  Johnny was the exception to the rule for moods being light. Although he did laugh at the boys trick and attempts to make them all smile, He was, for the most part, very quiet, observing, waiting for the right time to speak once more. He did not have to wait long, it seemed, as the conversation went back to the two ladies and how they ended up at the ranch.  “Did you not have an escort?” Dakota asked. “I know I do not have to remind you of how dangerous it is for anyone, let alone two women and one small boy.”  Summer looked to Moon a moment, sighed then looked away, pretending to be interested in the grooves of the paneling.  “Our camp was to be moved to the reservation,” she began to explain. “We escaped, when the soldiers attacked at night.”  “Soldiers? Attacking at night?” Said Jacob incredulously. “Are you sure?”  “Yes.” Answered Star sharply. “They did attack. At night, like rattlesnakes, striking people down in their sleep. Men. Women. Children.”  “What were they after?” asked Johnny calmly, his dark indigo eyes giving him a more serious tone as he watched the younger and older woman carefully.  An uncomfortable silence once again reigned. Moon and Summer looked at each other a moment. But it was actually Dakota that answered.  “What would any soldier be after, in an Indian encampment?” He asked bitterly. “To reduce our numbers. To eliminate the race, or water down the bloodlines and cut down our pride, our heritage.”  “I’m sorry,” said Johnny. “I crossed the line with that question. I should have known.”  “It is alright,” Moon said after a few more moments of silence. “It is easy not to know, or forget, when not in a camp. To know the starvation, to know the destruction upon a peaceful people, is a terrible knowledge.”  Jacob changed the subject.  “So what is the agenda for you ladies, if you don’t mind my asking?”  Moon answered him once again. “Star-that-Shines-I mean, Summer, is to return to California. Los Angels, it’s called. And we are to find her people there.”  Jacob nodded. “Then, it would only seem right that we escort you and the lady to Los Angles. “  “That will not be-“ Summer began, but was quickly cut off.  “Young lady,” said Jacob, “Apart from living your life in an Indian encampment, have you ever truly been in the desert? There are many dangers. Two women traveling alone are a target for unscrupulous men, as you already found out. Truth be told, if your Aunt did not put an arrow in one, you might have befallen a worse fate than what you had now.” His eyes met Summers a moment, Then Moon’s and finally Johnny’s and Dakota’s before continuing. “Besides, we would not be able to call ourselves gentlemen if we allowed you to leave in such a manner.”  Moon nodded. “It is settled then,” She said in a voice that suggested she thought the idea wise.  “Very well,” sighed Summer, who met Jacob’s eyes. “We are grateful for your escort, Mr. West.”  “Please, Call me Big Jake,” The elder man said. “Oh, one more thing. I think the boy-your son-should stay here for the time being. He would be well taken care of by Maggie and the staff. When you are certain of your return to your kin, and are settled, I can send him to you.”  Summer just stared. “Leave Hunter Wolf?” she echoed the words to herself. “I..I see the wisdom in your request, Jacob. I..I will do as you ask. It will be hard enough on the trail when we do not know what kind of reception I will receive once we reach our destination. Thank you,” she added.  Jacob nodded. “Good, good. We will leave by the end of the week. Saturday. I have some things to attend to, and we have supplies to be readied. Plus, I want to make certain you ladies are well rested, the lad well adjusted.”  Johnny just started at his grandfather. Wasn’t he the one to caution him about females? Yet here he is, offering assistance and escort. A shake of his head to clear the cobwebs of confusion that wove through his mind.  “You disapprove, Johnny?” asked the elder man.  “No, Grandfather,” he replied quickly, though doubt showed on his face. “I agree. Two ladies by themselves are horrid odds to surviving the roughneck trail. If you will excuse me, I think I shall retire for the evening.” He said as he rose. A bow to the ladies, a handshake to the men, and he was out the door onto the porch.  “He does not like us,” stated Summer. Somewhere, a twang of disappointment rang through her.  “Do not take anything Johnny says to heart, Ms. Brennan,” said Dakota, who was quiet up to now.  “He had a lady friend that well, broke his heart not to long ago,” stated Dakota. “He has not been the same ever since.”  “I can see,” said Summer quietly. Her heart reached out, but only for a moment. To be hurt by another was no small thing, and she has seen it sadly change many people in her life, and not for the better. She hoped that it was not the case here.  Moon rose, and then so did Summer.  “If you will excuse us, Mr. West,” said Moon. “It has been a long few days, and as you say, we must be well rested for the journey we are about to undertake.” A glance over to Summer, and a nod. “We are again grateful for your kindness and generosity. “  Both remaining gentlemen stood, and as gentlemen do, they bowed to the ladies as they exited the room.  Sitting now, Jacob lighting a cigar and offering one to Dakota, who politely declined.  “Why did you offer an escort?” Dakota wondered, now that they were alone.  “Well, it’s as I stated. The ladies have already found trouble, leading to us. I cannot in good conscious, allow that to happen. And,” Jacob added, leaning forward and dropping his voice a little. “Something strikes me as odd. I don’t know what it is. And that pendent. Just makes me think they are supposed to be here, and something about them just, well,” A long pause. “I intend to find out exactly what they are after, and who they really are.”  Dakota glanced upward at the big man, then out to the porch where his friend stood. Slowly he nodded, “I understand. I too, am going to bed. Good night, Big Jake.”  “Good night, Dakota,” said Jacob.  Jacob finished his drink, put out the cigar and glanced over to the porch where his grandson stood.  “Stubborn boy,” He thought, watching Johnny lean against the post on the porch, arms crossed, looking up to the stars. A few boot steps later brought him to the younger man’s side.  “I don’t trust them, Grandfather,” Johnny stated, not taking his eyes off the stars. “Something is definitely not right. I won’t be fooled again,” he added.  Jacob nodded, and glanced upward himself. “Fine night,” he simply said, eyes searching for answer.  But the stars remained silent it seemed, at least, for now. Giving a long sigh, Jacob looked to his grandson.  “I know what I told you about Women and being careful, Johnny,” Jacob said. “But, you also can’t judge every woman you meet as the same, or figure they are going to do the same.”  “But Grandfather, Did you see the way they looked at each other? As if though one didn’t know how to answer, and hoped the other would answer correctly?”  “Yes,” admitted Jacob. “It also could have been a case of how much of their business would they tell a stranger. I am not saying you are incorrect,” Jacob said, holding up a hand to stay off the protest Johnny was about to give. “There are things that are odd. That is why I offered assistance. To find the truth. I just finished explaining this to Dakota, actually.”  Johnny glanced down to where his grandfather stood, and glanced over to the now empty parlor.  “Alright,” Johnny said with a sigh. “We will do it your way. But I swear to you, I will be a gentleman, but distant. But, if something goes astray, or I find out they are cheating us, or conning us-“  Jacob interrupted. “I will dig out my sheriff’s badge just in case.”  Johnny nodded. “Good. I think I will dig out my own as well. Good night, Grandfather,” Johnny said with a tip of his hat.  Jacob watched the younger man walk, tall and proud, through the door and to the staircase to climb. After just a wink or two of time, he found himself alone and sighed, running a hand through his white hair.  “Rain, if ever I needed you, now would be the time,” he whispered to the stars, before he too, turned to retire for the night.  Somewhere in the starry sky, a lone blue star twinkled as though in response to his words, and the sky clouded over, spraying a fine mist of gentle rain over the land. 
 
 
 Morning dawned with the call of the Rooster, but Summer was already awake. Standing on the balcony in her white nightgown, watching the sun pop up over the Superstitious mountains and cast golden light to the land. She had stood there the last four days doing the same, and watched the beginnings of ranching come to life. It was a pleasant spot, tucked in the valley of the mountains, sheltered from the ferocious winds. Water, a rarity for most of the desert, actually came through as a nice sized creek, water from the mountains-and carefully harnessed and harvested for dry spells. Feed was bought and brought in of course for those same dry times, but all in all life seemed to flourish on this ranch, where so many struggle. Summer particularly enjoyed how the land was cared for and how things were carefully recycled where it could be used.   “My wife, Rain’s ideas,” The elder Jake had told her. It gave proof to the Lady being any kind of Indian, for most white men, what she had seen, had little respect for the land and its’ gifts.  The thing on the ranch that Summer really took a shine to were the horses that Big Jake, as he now wanted to be called, brought in just before their arrival. The wild stallion’s and she had a connection of sorts- both belonging to a dying breed, but had enough spirit to fight to survive to the last. Maybe that spirit would prevail one day, and all would not be lost. That was Summer’s wish every night as she thought about those who she came to love as her family, her friends. It was what made her spend so much time with Hunter Wolf. He understood that she would be leaving Saturday morning for a while, and being a good little brave, he vowed to make the most of it. He was sad at the coming departure, but knew, even at the age of three, he was safe and in good hands. It made today, Friday, a special one to spend with him, and she was going to do whatever she could to make every moment count.  Other thoughts invaded her mind. The ‘training’ her aunt was giving her for living in the white man’s world, and the actual ‘living’ in it. Such a vast difference from the world she had grown up in. The clothes, the food, the entire culture. What was her culture? Ireland. France. And of course, American. Worlds away from her own. She had no idea from the traditions or even what to expect. And there were so many things she had never heard of, no matter what culture it was from. It was a lot to process, and she would have to do it fast in order to survive in this ever changing world.  “Lost in thought?” came the gentle voice from behind .  “Yes, Aunt Moon,” Summer said softly. “I was thinking of the departure tomorrow. Of the changes I will have to make-that we will have to make. Just a week ago, this “Summer spread open her arms to include the surrounding areas, “was never in my dreams.”  Aunt Moon laid a delicate hand on the young girl’s shoulders. Summer glanced at it, and noticed for the first time how brown it was from the sun. Wrinkled with time. Such hard work was in those hands, such sacrifice, such caring. But, just because she was Indian, many would just scoff, and never know the person inside.  “You will do fine,” she was saying in a soothing voice. But Summer stayed lost in her own thoughts for a little while longer. How much she longed to tell the world how wrong it was about its judgment. But that would come one day on its own. All she could do, all anyone could do, was simply to get to know a person on the inside, no matter what they looked like on the out.  A knock on the door caused both ladies to turn. “Enter,” Aunt Moon said.  Maggie poked her head in the door, just a bit.  “Dearies, just wanted to tell you that breakfast would be soon ready,” she announced.  Aunt Moon nodded. “Thank you. We will be down soon.”  The door closed and silence reigned a few moments, save the soft calls of cattle on the distant hillside, and the occasional neigh of a horse below. Finally Summer stood after what seemed like a long moment, and began to get dressed without complaint.  It was the same as it had been the past few days, dressing in strange undergarments and a closet of fancy dresses that Big Jake said belonged to his beloved wife and their daughter in law. It was strange to see the transformation for both Moon and herself, but a necessary one and only a blessing that the Great Creator could provide. Big Jake also said that the ladies were welcome to ‘make use of them’ in California, until they had sufficient clothing of their own. The generosity of their saviors was great, but suspicion did loom underneath the laughter and light chatter on both sides. None of the men had pried much since the initial talk in the parlor, but then again Johnny didn’t talk much at all, really. He was polite enough, except for the staring that he did at Summer when he thought no one else was looking. She wasn’t sure what to make of his looks, which fluctuated from fascination to mistrust. Dakota was a mix between the two men, polite, but keeping a distance. Maggie, however, was upfront and open hearted, and didn’t hesitate with details of her life. Summer and Moon both liked the lady, and her genuine friendliness was something all three women treasured. It gave comfort to Summer about leaving Hunter Wolf with her.  But for now, she had one more day with him, and they were going on a picnic together. The men deciding to go for the woman’s protection, and the food itself. Maggie, of course, stated no one else would serve, so she was also included in the entourage.  First, though, would come breakfast. Dressed in a simple garment of green with cream colored Celtic designs, Summer’s Irish side showed and stopped nearly all in their tracks.  “You look a vision,” Maggie stated in a shaky breath. “It is almost as if the Missus was here once more.”  “My mother was Irish, with red hair,” Johnny explained. “It was her dress.”  “Oh, I see,” said Summer as she was seated. “I didn’t mean to startle anyone. Did you wish me to change before the picnic?”  “Oh, no no,” said Jacob quickly. “It is rather nice on you. Please, don’t think our reaction bad. Please.”  Summer nodded, and readied to eat the hearty plate of food that was laid in front of her. Moon was served equally, something they both knew wouldn’t be so when they got out into the world.  Johnny became quiet, absorbed in some old looking papers. Summer raised an eyebrow, curiosity piqued.  “You look puzzled,” she said after watching him for a time. “Would you like some help?”  “Actually, yes,” Johnny said. There are some pieces to this puzzle that is needed. I have been stumped for years. It is a riddle my grandmother left me,” he explained. “A life lesson, or something.”  Summer smiled politely and held out her hand to take the papers. Johnny reached out to hand them to her, and his long, calloused fingers touched hers. The feeling, like a spark of electricity, that shivered through him was something he didn’t expect, and the look on surprise on Summers face told him that she had felt it too.  Dakota, Big Jake and Moon watched from their places, and raised eyebrows were present on the three. Something had transpired, as the little gasp Summer unknowingly made was what caught their attention.  “I ah, I, “ stuttered Johnny, looking now into Summer’s intense green eyes.  “Yes?” both a question and a possible unspoken answer.  The spell was broken it seemed, when Maggie came through the door, bringing out another round of coffee.  Both Johnny and Summer shook their heads as if to clear them, and the moment was temporarily forgotten.  “Some of these are in Navaho,” Summer exclaimed upon examining the papers. “The others are in Apache.”  She frowned, studying the symbols a bit further. Some things did not make much sense. Many parts were missing, it seemed.  “I can read some of the symbols,” She said finally after much study. “Some things do not make sense.  Some lines talk about a treasure, some talk of things never heard of.” Green eyes met Johnny’s own indigo.”What is the treasure?”  He gave a sly grin. “Nothing really. A riddle my grandmother put together for me as a boy. Probably some long forgotten treat she had in mind.”  “Oh.” Summer was still quite perplexed. “She was Apache though. How did she know Navaho symbols?”  Johnny shrugged. “I don’t really know,” he lied. “Can you tell me what the symbols are, what they mean?”  Summer glanced at the paper once again. “From the Eagles nest, beware the death of the approaching night. Follow the path of the snow upon the blue, then embrace the light of the never setting sun. ,” is what the first line means. The second line says, “Up and over, down again.”  Johnny continued, reading the Apache symbols. “A painted mountain, not your friend. A place with no bottom, as big as the sky, in the green ribbon, at the bend, the golden trail you will find.”  Johnny nodded, then took the papers back. “Thank you,” he simply said, and walked away.  Summer stared after him as her mind whirled. She wondered how he really got a hold of Navaho symbols such as those, and what he was really after. The Golden Rose popped to her mind. Could it be that he and his folk were treasure hunters, after the artifact? Summer wasn’t sure, but it wouldn’t be the first time someone had come to a ‘rescue’ from a ‘attack’ in order to gain trust and information.  Caution” was now a good thing to carry. Besides, He carried Navaho symbols, though he was Apache. How was she to know or not know, He or the other men weren’t the one that followed and they tried to loose, steering them to this place and into a trap?  Johnny also wondered just what Summer and Moon were really up to. Their story was possible-in the older days and still at times now, some white folk were raided, some killed, some kidnapped, only to be inducted and raised by the tribe. Many were ransomed, some killed, others, kept all their life. It was not so common as it once was, however, and many an Indian tried to establish trust at times to find out others were up to. And trust, was not something Johnny was accustomed to giving. After all, it was pretty convenient that these two women, traveling alone in the desert, just happened to be Navaho, after finding symbols of that very same people. Maybe they were the ones who had been following him for days before he reached home?  The friendly smiles did not meet the eyes of either Johnny or Summer as they sat down to eat later at the picnic.  That uncomfortable silence once again reigned, breeding a form of awkwardness to all present.  “Fried Chicken?” asked Maggie, shaking Johnny out of his hypnotic state. Had he been staring, again? He shook his head hard as an effort to clear the cobwebs from his brain.  “Ah, sure yeah. I will have some of that,” He stammered. “Thank you.”  For a while longer he stayed quiet, watching Summer as she played with little Hunter Wolf, from games of tag to hitting small rocks with a thick stick. The boy may be just shy of four and skinny, but he had a sweet smile and an easy laugh. Smart too. It was obvious Summer loved the boy, but the mystery deepened as over several times the boy asked for his mama, and she distracted him from the question.  Summer could feel his eyes upon her as she played the afternoon with the boy, keeping both their minds off the coming departure in the morn. Several times she wanted to invite him to just come and play, but something in his expression and her own mistrust stopped her from doing so. At times, she found herself staring when he would look away, only to be caught when he glanced back. This only seemed to agitate the tall, handsome man more, much to her chagrin. 
 
 
 Moon and Big Jake also watched the three, as Dakota helped Maggie clean up from the lunch they had.   Each had their own thoughts on the events that played out before them as the afternoon wore on. “  “She is a pretty girl,” Big Jake commented finally, while continuing to watch the scene before him.  “Yes, She is,” Moon agreed.  “Reminds me, of my wife,” Big Jake continued. “In spirit, I mean.” A glance upward. “Rain. She died, trying to save our son and his wife from a fire,” he said sadly.  “I am sorry to hear of such a thing,” Moon said quietly.  For a moment, only the laughter of Summer and Hunter were heard over the land.  That peace did not last very long, however, when a shrill cry ran through the air from the canyon beyond.  Everyone froze, and heartbeats were quickened as all glanced around for the source of the noise. Another shrill cry, this one even closer, brought everyone to their feet. Summer raced across the grass towards Hunter Wolf, who was a little ways from her and had been after a runaway ball. The third shrill cry gave the ladies a fright of their own as the mountain lion came into view.  “Nashdoitsoh! Nashdoitsoh!” The boy cried as the animal appeared not so far from him. The fear the child felt sent him turning and running towards Summer.  “Stop! Stop!” Johnny cried, sprinting off after them both.  Summer reached the boy first, wrapping her arms around him and back peddling as fast as she could. This only sent them both sprawling to the ground, and the mountain lion’s steps grew quicker in their direction.  Johnny was coming up as fast as he could, bare handed. Big Jake and Dakota were just a little ways behind, one wielding a shot gun, the other, a thick, heavy stick. With ten yards and closing, everything suddenly happened at once.  “Just don’t move,” Johnny told Summer quietly. But it was too late-she was trying desperately to get up and shield the boy from the animal’s view. The movement seemed to enrage the cat, and it leapt with an ear splitting screech. Dakota and Johnny rushed forward towards the pair, while an echo of a shotgun rolled through the land.  Just a mere two feet from Summer, and the big cat dropped, dead.  Dakota was standing just a hair in front of the two, stick at the ready to swing. Johnny had thrown himself over Summer and the boy. That eerie, awkward silence, save the heavy breathing of all involved, seemed to still the very air and slow down time. It seemed an eternity before anyone moved. It was in fact, only moments.  “Are you all right?” Johnny finally whispered to her. His quiet voice was so loud over the pounding of her heart, that she jumped, her head bashing into his chin.  “Owww,” Johnny moaned, as his head snapped back from the impact. “I guess that is a yes?” he asked.  “Oh! I am so sorry,” Summer apologized. “It was an accident. You startled me,” she explained. “Are you all right?”  “It’s nothing that a patch of ice won’t cure,” Johnny said teasingly while rubbing his jaw and standing up. One hand reached out to help her up, and the quiet Hunter, who was still wide eyed.  Dakota just shook his head and turned.  “Thank you, both of you,” Summer said quietly. “Your bravery is a wonderful quality.”  Hunter Wolf nodded his head, still giving a wide eyed stare to the dead cat.  Big Jake still stood, and finally lowered his riffle. Seeing all was well, he turned. Moon had been in a state of prayer. Eyes closed, soft murmurs of Navajo as she kneeled. Jake placed a comforting hand on her shoulder.  “It is over,” he said calmly. “No one was hurt.”  Moon opened her eyes to assess for herself, then closed them once more giving thanks to the Creator.  The tension slowly seemed to leave her body. Her eyes opened once more.  “All, except the great cat,” she finally said.  Jake just shook his head. “Aye.”  It was agreed by all that there had been quite enough excitement for the day, and the lunch was quickly packed. All headed back to the ranch house for a bath and an early bed rest. Tomorrow, they knew, was going to be a very busy day. As they got back to the ranch, items were quickly put away. By time baths were taken, and a light meal devoured, no one took to the parlor, but went straight to bed.  Summer lay there, wide awake, enjoying the last known comfort she would feel for weeks. She lay as the house was silent, listening to the sounds of nature calling and gazing through the window at the stars. Something was in the air. She could feel it. Summer had known the moment the attack begun and she galloped away, that her life was never going to be the same.  With a heavy sigh, she got up, checked on Hunter Wolf for the fourth time. She would miss the boy. Who knew when she would see him again? But at least he would be taken well care of by Maggie. Kissing his forehead, she then slipped out the door and down the steps, out to the wide porch. Sitting on the steps, she stopped to listen to the lonely sounding yip of a coyote. The symbol of change to her people.  “Can’t sleep either?” came a voice behind her. Somehow, she knew it was him, without turning around.  “No. Too much has happened. So much will change. “Summer said. Her chin lifted, and she made a nod to towards the dessert. “Even the Coyote agrees.”  “Yeah. Been hearing that most the night. Haven’t had one of those around in a long while, actually.” Johnny told her. He sat down as Summer slid over to make room on the step.  “The Golden Rose,” Summer suddenly said, still staring up to the sky. “Tell me, what you know. I know you do. I see it in your eyes.”  “Just some legends my grandmother told me,” Johnny admitted after a few moments. “About how it is supposed to bring peace Shrugs. “Bedtime stories for children,” he added.  Summer shook her head. “Not so. Many would believe such, but you-it is more to you. Or you would not have asked me about the clues you found. Why do you seek it?”  “To see if it is real,” Johnny admitted truthfully. “If it really does what it’s supposed to do. My parents, grandmother died keeping that secret,” he added. “I aim to find it one day, and keep it safe. To honor them. Make their death not be in vein.”  “My parents and grandparents died too, when I was all of one,” Summer told him quietly. “I know it is not what was told to you at the beginning. But it-well-you have my trust. For what you did for me and Hunter Wolf. “  “How do you know that I did not do it, to gain your trust?” Johnny said casually. “Or to throw you off guard, and use what you know?”  “Your eyes,” Summer said, in a matter-of-fact tone. “And-something I cannot put my finger on. But the Great Spirit told me it was ok to tell you. That doesn’t happen often”  “No, I suppose it doesn’t,” admitted Johnny.  A few moments of that awkward silence followed, only to be broken by the sudden appearance of the moon between the two peaks in a distance. Huge and golden, the full moon rose like a beacon in the night, lighting the path for any poor soul that might be traveling or trapped in the dessert. For the pair sitting on the steps, it bathed them in the heavenly light, causing all conversation and awkward feelings to temporarily cease.  “It is said, that even as the mountains may rise and fall, the moon, sun and stars always shall be,” Summer finally spoke.  “It’s a beautiful site,” whispered Johnny.  Another few moments passed, and he finally stood.  “We should both try to get some sleep,” He finally said.  She took his offered hand, and rose. “Yes,” she agreed. “Tomorrow is the new page in a chapter of life for all of us, I think. Good night.”  He watched her walk back in the house, and glanced upward at the stars once more.  “Grandma Rain. Father. Mother,” Johnny whispered to the stars. “I know you watch over me. And for that, I am grateful. Know, that you are missed.”  With that, he too, retired to his bed. It would be truly hours, before anyone actually slept.  Tomorrow, started the grandest adventure, more than any of them would ever have dreamed, and gave new dangers that none would ever expect. It would also prove to be a growth in both spirit and character, perseverance and strength. It was a day that seemed like it would never come, but the sun appeared all too soon, highlighting the premonition of extreme change and challenges that lay ahead. 
 
 
 Despite the late hour of sleep, Summer was up before the crow of the rooster and pacing the floor. She was energized, eager to start their trek into their new world. Apprehensions abound, but she only seemed to feed upon it. A dream, just beyond the edges of her now conscious mind, floated irritatingly close, nagging at her brain about something important but not yet remember able, hence her agitation. It was the ‘harrumph’ sound she made that work her aunt, resulting in a light scolding for the early rise.   “You are anxious to spend days and hours in a horses saddle to rise from such a comfortable bed,” Moon murmured, eyes closed. “And eager for the wrath of an old woman who has never enjoyed such comfort as before?”  An idle threat with no menace, Summer knew, causing a small smirk on her face. But she dare not voice the cockiness. She knew better than that. Instead, Summer took a minute to swallow and return to a more graceful stature.  “I am sorry, dear Aunt,” she quietly whispered the respect. “Dreams plague me, and thirst for knowledge of my father’s people runs low.” A pause. “And, this gentleman, Johnny, has symbols of Navaho and Apache, in a riddle about a treasure. He watches me, stares at my pendant. He thinks of, knows, of the Golden Rose, Aunt.”  That last bit of information had the older woman sitting up, eyes open, attention full on the girl’s words.  “Unless he is a treasure hunter, there is only one way this man could have Apache symbols,” Moon stated in a serious tone. “His grandmother was Apache, found in the desert.”  A twist, then a press of her lips told Summer that the lady was thinking heavily upon the evidence.  “I have been thinking on such,” Moon finally replied. “There are many possibilities. There could have been a raid from a nearby encampment. There could have been a hunting party lost, and all died of thirst but her. She could have been separated from her camp somehow. Or…” Moon hesitated a moment, then looked to her niece with seriousness in her eyes. “She could have been the daughter of the missing guardian of the Rose.”  “Why would the man have not returned to his own tribe?” Summer asked. “And obviously, if he was the Guardian, who did he marry, what happened to his wife, and…”  “Yes, there are many questions with little to no answer,” Moon interrupted. “But now is not the time to ask such things. If the answers are to be revealed, it will be in their own time.”  Summer nodded, just a bit exasperated. She was impatient on some things, she would guess. Anything with the remote possibility to do with the Rose she had the least patience for.  A light tap on the door interrupted her thoughts. Maggie’s voice floated through, it’s musical quality and soft tone a soothing noise to quiet her noisy mind.  “Dearies, even being this early, breakfast will soon be ready,” Maggie said through the door. “I’m wanting to make sure you all have a hearty breakfast before your departure.”  The twinge of sadness in the other wise happy melody was not lost upon the women, who quit their discussion for now and dressed. Through Maggie’s protest, they had the lady sit, and served her a breakfast of strong coffee and fruit, before partaking in their own.  “A custom of ours,” is what Moon told her. “An honor to family before a long journey would leave loved ones behind.”  Summer glanced at Moon-she never remembered quite such a custom, but from the stern eye to be quiet from her Aunt, she did not question. It was easy enough to guess that Aunt Moon loved the woman in such a short time, and wanted to honor the woman in the best way she knew how. The Irish lady voiced steadily about the fuss made over her, but the delight in her eyes made Summer vow, that, if and when they should return from this adventure, to make it a regular custom of honor for this sweet lady.  The men were actually late risers this time around, unusual for them, especially with such a journey ahead. They were up late in Big Jake’s bedroom, devising a plan of action for protection, the route to California, and making sure the provisions were set. Johnny had come in from his talk with Summer, and seemed distracted at times. A ribbing from Dakota brought him to his senses.  “Smitten by the golden lass,eh, brother? “ Dakota said.  That comment caused Johnny’s head to swing around and a low growl emitted from his lips.  “Absolutely not,” Johnny replied gruffly.  “Good. Now that we have you back in reality, pay attention,” said Big Jake, swatting Johnny on the back of the head. “I was going over the plans for this trip.”  “Yes sir,” replied Johnny, and firmly pushed his thoughts out of his mind. At least, for now.  He had succeeded, until that morning, when he descended the staircase and spotted her, now in a sensible pair of trousers, a white shirt, and bandana-recommended for the long, excruciating trip through the desert. Even with her hair up, there was something striking about the young woman that caused him to stare and have his heart pound.  “Good morning,” she said casually, as the men entered the kitchen.  “I thought we were leaving at sunrise?” she teased.  “Actually, we are going to leave at sunset,” replied Big Jake, coming in behind Johnny. “It may be best to travel as we can during the night. At least, until we hit the mountains. The heat, as you know, is one thing to deal with. Bandits are another.”  “Most people keep moving during the day,” Dakota explained. “Try to find camps at night. This way, it will be warm when we sleep, cooler when we travel, and the animals will last longer with our water supply.”  Summer had to agree this made sense. She was hoping to leave and save what she knew would be a tearful goodbye with the boy. Knowing your going to leave is one thing. Actually leaving and staying with stranger quite another.  But the little brave held his head high as he watched those he knew pack saddle bags. Summer had to smile when, instead of a hug, he struck his fist over his chest and solemnly pledged to be the man of the house and protect those within.  “Hágoónee,” He said, giving the native word for goodbye of his people.  “Lá’aa, hágoónee,” replied Summer. “Be brave, strong and true.”  She fought tradition not to look back, making sure his little form was the last she saw as the group rounded the bend to cut through the darkening shadow of the white mountains and into the dessert, towards the setting sun.  As she turned to look forward, the words of the riddle sprung through her head . “From the Eagles nest, beware the death of the approaching night, and follow the path of the ever setting sun.”   “WEST!” she cried, suddenly understanding, coming to a halt.  “This brought the group to a stop, turning around.  “What’s wrong?” Shouted back Big Jake, who was leading the group. He was annoyed, presuming that the woman changed her mind about leaving the boy, or some nonsense that would hold them up.  Johnny took his position from his father’s side and rode quickly to Summer’s.  “What?” He asked, glancing over her. He thought something had happened. Maybe a snake? Scorpion? Somehow, the look on her face, told him it was not the case.  Summer lowered her voice so only he could hear.  “West…your name is West. The..the beginning of the riddle! The white mountains.” She pointed backwards. “They are directions. Directions to your home.”  Johnny looked upward, at the Superstition Mountains, turning into a blue haze as night began to sit in.  “Follow the path of the ever setting sun-West-The snow upon the blue”- he mumbled.  “Up, down and over again,” Summer finished. “The Eagles nest..is the home of her ancestors. Her father’s..”  Her voice trailed off as their eyes locked.  “Everything alright over there?” Big Jake hollered back.  To Summer, he whispered, “I think you are right. We will talk later.” To Big Jake, he raised his voice so the man could hear and not approach. “Yeah. She just had a question, is all.”  “Well than answer it and lets get going,” replied big Jake gruffly.  “Yes sir,” Johnny answered, then swung Firewind around to rejoin the old man.  Summer rode in silence, as did the rest of the group. It was surprising as he said, to travel at night. The animals went much farther than in the heat, requiring less water. The moon was full and bright, lighting a clear path. It was apparent the trail was known well to the West’s, as morning began to peek in brilliant colors behind them, a small, shaded oasis came into view.  “Welcome to Oasis West Hotel,” Big Jake said jokingly. The man never looked tired despite the long hours he had traveled. “We will set up camp here, water the animals. Johnny, Dakota, you know where to set up the tents. Ms. Brennan, if you could water the horses please.”  “I will build a fire and make some food,” volunteered Moon.  Big Jake nodded. “Much obliged, Ms. Moon,” he said. “I will show you the spot we have our campfire. It is shielded from the winds. I don’t like desert sand in my food.”  Moon nodded and followed the man. A shallow, crystal clear pool of water, bubbling in the center and fed by a small stream of water from the wall of rocks was present, and Summer found it an easy job to lead the animals to it. Turning to help her aunt, she found the woman with a good campfire going, a cast iron skillet, and in the middle of making kneel down  bread, a flat, pancake like piece that you add ingredients too and roll up to eat. Beside her aunt was fruits from the desert- tepary beans, saguaro fruit, and a variety of desert plants to make a good, strong tea with. She licked her lips despite herself. They were in for a good meal which would fill the belly and give a good nights’ rest.  Over in the far corner, in what would be the shadiest spot of the day, Johnny West had build one tent, and was in the middle of building another. Dakota was sweeping the grass and checking the rocks, most likely to make sure unwanted critters and creatures of the desert weren’t present.  Finally the meal was called, and the men exclaimed their compliments to the proud woman, who stood silently by and refused to eat until everyone had their fill.  Dakota had volunteered for the first watch, letting everyone else bunker down for the day. Again, Summer had to admit to the wisdom of Big Jake’s plan of reverse travel. She watched for a chance to again talk to Johnny West about the discovery they both made about the riddle, but the snoring from his tent told her that chance would not be any time soon. Deciding to do the same, and being shooed away from her aunt, who insisted on cleanup duties herself, Summer’s eyes closed and she too was off to dreamland.  Handing off a cup of strong tea to Dakota after she finished cleaning.  “This will help you stay awake,” She told the man, who watched diligently. “since you insist on no sleep.”  “I am making sure no trouble comes our way,” Dakota replied. “Change is on the wind. I feel it within my soul. So is danger.”  Moon nodded in agreement with the tall Indian. “Yes, it is. And it follows us.”  This time, it was Dakota nodding his head.  “That is another reason why we sleep during the day,” he said after a while. “To see it when it comes.”  The two were more right than they knew. A pair of binoculars were lowered on a high ridge diagonally from the camp.  “Why the hell are they camping now?” came a whiny reply from a rather skinny man on an equally skinny horse.  “Smart,” came the deep voice of the leader. “Very smart. Looks as though we are going to have to come up with a new plan.”  “Why?” asked the whine cowboy. “Thought we were a’gonna raid them tonight.”  “Will be a little hard to raid when they are on the move,” replied the leader impatiently. “Come on Gustus. Use your head.”  Gustus, the whiny cowboy, gave a low moan. “Josiah, I do have a brain, and it’s being fried here in the sun.”  “That’s whats making Big Jake’s plan so ingenious,” said Josiah, the leader, rubbing his stubble bearded jaw. “Where he is positioned, we would have to spend most the day circling around and climbing those rocks to come from behind. We’d be seen from any other direction, and in enough time to alert the camp and arm. Those boys of Jake, especially that damned injun of his, are well adapted too.”  “Yeah, we probably be scalped. I like my scalp,” whined Gustus.  Josiah shook his head. Sometimes he wished his companion WOULD be scalped. It would at least alleviate him of the constant complaining from the other man. But, he did swear an oath to protect his little brother to his dying parents. As much as the pain in the backside was alive, he would honor it.  “Well, what do we do, Josiah?” asked Gustus after a few moments.  A small mountain range loomed a few miles to the right. Well out of the sight of the camp, but that is just what they would have to take.  “Come on,” Josiah told his younger brother. “Head for them hills. We will do the same, sleep in the day, travel by night. Lets get out of this sun, and get some sleep.”  The younger man groaned but followed the elder, complaining all the way that he wasn’t tired, but hungry, and at least a good meal would be appreciated.  All he got instead, was some miners lettuce and a prickly pear. 
 
 
 The West’s awoke to catch the blazing sunset, angry streaks of red, yellow and orange painting the sky. It never ceased to fascinate Summer, the colors of the sky, nor how it turned from its vibrant shades to a deep purple-black or even a midnight blue. It depended on the Great Spirits mood, she supposed. The first tiny, twinkling star appeared soon after, and she gazed upon it.   “You know, legends say, if you whisper your wishes to the stars, they work together to have them come true.” The voice penetrated her thoughts, and she turned to the owner.  “What would you wish for, Johnny West?” she quietly asked.  “Me?” he acted surprised at the question. Sitting beside her on the rock, he thought silently for a few moments.  “I would wish for my grandmother, mother and father to still be alive,” he finally answered. “ Would trade my existence for theirs, even.”  She nodded. “It is said, when the Great Spirit, our creator, calls us home, a new star appears.” Quietly, she picked out three adjacent stars in the sky and pointed.  “There they are,” she said, as more stars appeared. “They are looking down, watching you.” Summer glanced over at Johnny. “They never really leave us, you know. Their voices are in the wind, if you know how to listen, and their eyes are the twinkling stars, watching.”  Johnny looked at the lady next to him. “That is beautiful,” he said to her. “You are beautiful too.”  Summer blinked twice at the unfamiliar comment.  “I…well..thank you,” she stumbled over her words, not quite sure what to say.  “No problem,” he said, then stood. That was about as close as he wanted to get-just to get a whiff of her scent. Beyond the dust of the trail, he caught the scent of…wild berries. An odd thing, considering there hasn’t been any he had seen or had in months. Everyone had a natural scent, his grandmother had said. It was not meant to be fresh, as they call a person with ill intentions, but as a tool to know more about them, how they lived, where they were from. He simply guessed that there was a place of wild berries nearby where she lived. Instead, the truth was, the berries used to dye her skin and hair for so long was more the answer.  A hearty dinner/breakfast was had, with blue corn meal, wild onions, prickly pear,a thick sauce Maggie had packed, and a strong, dandelion tea.  “This tea could almost rival Maggie’s coffee,” Big Jake had said, knowing full well if it was stated in front of the lady, she would probably be upset.  “Thank you,” Aunt Moon said simply, while pouring him another cup.  Camp was broken, and it was time to move on. All the while, the two party of bandits kept a close eye, waiting for a chance to jump in and do what they had been bid to do.  “How long do you think we will be following them ’afore we can raid them for that artifact, Josiah?” Gustas asked.  “I don’t know yet, Gustas,” Josiah said irritatedly. They had stopped at the Oasis to water the horses and refill their own water supply, before picking up the departing party’s tracks.  “Annie is not going to be happy,” Josiah muttered to himself, glancing off into the darkness of night. Their tracks were not so easy to follow, and by the daytime, would be blown over by the hot sierra winds. Josiah had a sneaky suspicion, however, where they were going, and what they would have to cross first to get there.  “Come on, Gustas,” he growled the order to his brother, who ‘yahhed’ his horse to obey without hesitation.  The pattern would continue on like this for a few days, and by the time each party happened upon the newly spring up town, everyone was anxious for a decent bath and bed without sand. It stuck to everything, and in every personal nook and cranny available.  The name of the town was Vulture City, named for one of the gold mines that recently was discovered just the year before. Obvious construction was going on the main street, as there wasn’t even a wood board sidewalk in front of the few stores and the one hotel the town had to offer. A sorry bunch of painted women hung out in front of the saloon hotel, making eyes at anyone they possibly could that walked by if they had money.  Money, was a definite requirement. No charity ran in this town, and everything was by gold standard, which was at least double everywhere else. This was not a problem, as Big Jake could provide. There would be a few towns along the way, and Big Jake not only had money, but notoriety everywhere he went. Even a few in this sorry little town recognized him.  “Hey, Big Jake!” one dark haired, middle aged man shouted out, crossing the dusty road. “Just the man I want to see. How do you like the town, eh? I’m gonna run for mayor, soon as there is something to mayor over,” he laughed. “What brings you here, ol’ man? Catch a bit of the gold fever?”  Big Jake shook his head. “Personal business, Arnold. Just passing through.”  “I didn’t think anything would make you leave that ranch of yours,” Arnold asked him, taking a drink from a flask. “You didn’t sell it, did you?”  Big Jake eyed the large man suspiciously. “No. And the ranch is well armed and self sufficient.”  Arnold threw up his hands. “Ok, Jake, ok,” he said, doing a little backpedal, as if he had been pushed. “No need to get snippy. Hey, how about joining me and my oldest in a game of cards, yes?” Arnold then spied Moon and Summer, sitting quietly upon the horses.  “I was gonna tell you that you could get quite a night here, but I see you brought your..own company.” Arnold glanced eerily up and down at the two women. “Fine looking injun too. Whats your price for her, Jake?”  Big Jake just glowered at the man. “She’s not for sale, she is under my charge. She and the lady traveling with her.”  “Oh, of course!” Arnold turned once more and made and exaggerated bow, tipping his hat for effect. “I meant no disrespect.”  The women only stared at the obviously drunk man.  “Well, Big Jake,” said the man once again, turning to give a slap on the back. “It’s good to see ya. If there is anything I can do for you, just ask.” He spread his arms wide. “I am not that hard to find.”  Laughing, Arnold made his way into the saloon.  “Well, it’s not the best, but at least we can re supply. Do you think there are beds for the night?” Johnny asked.  “We will soon find out,” Big Jake replied, as he also made his way into the saloon.  The price was outrageous, but included a bath. The men were cramped into one room, the women in another. The rancorous laughter of the women and the constant arguments of the men over cards penetrated the thin walls. Sleep on anything but sand after a semi warm bath was preferable, however, the lumpy mattresses didn’t give much relief to the sore muscles days of riding produced.  “What are they doing?” asked Summer, annoyed at the constant ‘thump thump thump’ of a headboard against one wall.  Moon only smiled. “A secret you will one day learn.” The answer only seemed to annoy Summer further.  Summer instead that Moon took the bed, and when the lady was seemingly fast asleep, her door opened. She would not go down and partake in the crowd, but simply stood against the newly polished banister and watched.  The place was crowded for a Wednesday night. Dirty miners, newly rich, lost their new earnings at games of cards. Some argued, others pummeled each other in darkened corners. What sounded like a gunshot rang out from time to time. People were constantly streaming in and out of the door. The bartender, a burly, strong looking man in his thirties, had no problem keeping up with the constant demand for drinks. Idly, Summer wondered where the supplies came from, since the y were stuck out in the middle of the desert.  “Hey, beautiful, whatcha doin’ up there?” called out a drunken miner from the bottom steps. “Why don’t you come down and join us all for a lil fun?” He held up a blackened hand. “I got me some money. You want some money, honey?” The man started up the stairs.  Summer was about to make a retreat, when a familiar presence came to her side.  “The Lady is with me,” Johnny said, in the deepest, most threatening tone that he could. The miner backed off, and he soon turned his attention, and the gold, to a lady more suited for his tastes and attentions.  “Thank you,” Summer whispered.  “You’re welcome. But what are you doing here? Don’t you know how dangerous this place really is?” Johnny hissed at her.  “Well, I’ve never really seen a place like this,” Summer said quietly. “But, I can see the validity of your point. These do not seem the sort of people I would wish to call friend.”  “You would be surprised,  princess,”  he emphasized on the title, “That sometimes, your best friends are in the places you least expect. Most of these men are hard working guys just looking for a little fun. They have no family, no home life. So, what do you expect them to do?” Johnny shook his head. “Judgment, before determining one’s soul, is bad karma. Someone may be looking at you, and assuming you are one of them.” He pointed to the various ladies in states of undress across the room.  “Your point is well taken, Mr. West,” Summer said, ashamed of her mistake. “You are also right. It is why my people are so peaceful in many ways, I guess.”  “To do unto others, as you would have them do to you,” Johnny replied.  Summer nodded in agreement.  Johnny offered his arm, which she, now used to this custom, slipped her hand into the crook of. The pair descended down the stairs, making their way towards the doors. A little air would do them both good, each thought.  On the way, Summer caught a glimpse of Big Jake, cigar in hand, playing a game of cards. By the looks of things, he was winning quite a sum too. Dakota quietly stood at his side, the brim of his hat pushed down over his face. Protection, Summer guessed, in case anyone got the idea to pull a gun or a knife. She was relieved when the pair made it past the doors uninhibited and they stepped out underneath the twinkling stars.  “Did you enjoy your bath?” Johnny asked, steering her to the quieter side of the street.  “Ah, yes,” Summer responded, her eyes now scanning the patterns drawn on the sky. “Did you? Was the water hot enough?”  “It was good, considering it got the first few layers of desert grime off,” Johnny muttered. “Wait till we get to California. Los Angles has grown into quite the city, I hear.”  “You have been there?” she asked him.  “Yeah, not to long ago,” Johnny replied, pausing at the window of the general store. “Was….tracking someone.”  Summer’s curiosity was piqued. “Oh? Who?and Why?”  Johnny thought for a moment, and told her the basics about Annie L’amour. He had left the ranch to forget the damage she did to his heart, but found himself tracking her instead. He watched her movements, watched how she plotted, planned and schemed, and ran around with some guys named Gustus and Josiah.  Summer shook her head. “I am sorry to hear such things,” she said, gently touching his shoulder. “A woman so wicked in my village would be whipped.”  “I wish I had sometimes,” muttered Johnny. “I have someone keeping an eye on her, anyhow. I need to know what she is doing won’t ever affect the ranch again.”  “The name of the ranch, by the way,” Summer began, but Johnny interrupted.  “I know. The name of the ranch tends to get us in trouble at times.”  “That might be true, but I meant the name is a beautiful tribute,” Summer said. “But is it a real coincidence?” she turned to look at him. “I think your grandmother was the daughter of the male guardian. I also believe you are part of the prophecy itself.”  Johnny stared at her for what seemed like forever. When he did speak, his voice was slow and deliberate.  “My grandmother used to think the same thing,” He told her. “There was something else that my grandmother told me.”  But that bit of information would have to wait, as a ear splitting crash came from the saloon. Tumbling out of the window were two figures, each locked into what looked like a fierce fight to the death.  Summer gasped and looked around. Where was the law in this town, anyway? Did it even have one?  The answer came in an unexpected way. Johnny closed the steps between himself and the brawlers, jumping in the fray in the attempt to separate the two. When that didn’t work and he emerged with a bloody nose, his pistol was pulled into the air and shots echoed off the rocky walls.  “That’s enough!” Johnny shouted. All activity and noise came to a halt, as everyone within shouting range turned their eyes to the man.  The silence was broken quickly, however, by the drunken miner from earlier that night.  “Just what are you, some kind of law man?” He challenged, getting peels of laughter from the ladies lounged around him. “We don’ have no law mans around here.”  Johnny pulled back the side of his jacket to reveal a silver star, and the crowd close enough to read it gasped and took a step back.  “Texas ranger, more like,” Johnny said dryly. “Anymore questions?”  Everyone shook their heads.  “Good.” Turning toward the two glaring at each other as they knelt and nursed their wounds. “What is this all about?”  “Card game, sir,” said the one on the left. “He’s a cheat.”  Johnny shook his head. Just typical, oh so typical of a wild west town.  “Alright,” Johnny said, nodding. He casually pointed his gun at the one on the right. “You. Stop cheatin’. You,” turning towards the accuser, “Don’t play with him if he cheats. Got it?”  Both men nodded, shook hands, and departed in different directions.  “Well done, son,” boomed Big Jake’s voice as he stepped out to the street. “Nicely handled. But, I think the lady oughta retire to her bed. We head out of here soon as it is nightfall tomorrow, but have to be up early to hit that general store and restock.”  When Big Jake issued orders, they were followed. Both Summer and Johnny conceded, and said their good nights to the man. A few sneers and catcalls, as well as a few references to the missus the Ranger went upstairs with, but the noise seemed to dull down a bit, and no more trouble, on a grand scale, anyhow, was had that night. 
 
 
 Everyone felt mostly refreshed by the time they awoke at noon, and gathered downstairs in the somewhat empty saloon for a meal.   The conversation centered lightly on the remaining length of the trip.  “Another week, we will be in Nevada, near the Sierra mountains,” Big Jake told the group. “Through that pass will be California. From there, the trip will go much faster. Los Angles has grown quite a bit over the years.”  “Many Spaniards and Indian there,” Johnny said. “Great wine too. We have a friend out there. We will stay with him and his family while you conduct your business” He glanced towards both Summer and Moon. “You will be treated as guests there too.”  Moon nodded. “That is appreciated,” stated Moon.  “When you are done with your business in California, where do you go from there?” inquired Big Jake.  Both ladies looked at each other, and it was Summer who replied. “I...we are not sure at this time,”she finally said.  “Big Jake only nodded.  They were interrupted by a decently dressed saloon girl with the first trays of their meal. Everyone dove in, and agreed quickly that this was the best thing the town had to offer so far. It wasn’t until the final bit of gravy was scraped off the plate by a hearty hunk of  bread that a startled gasp was given. On the bottom of the plate was a small,delicate, painted golden rose. Everyone started scraping their own plates to see if another existed. Only Dakota’s plate had the painted flower.  “Oh, you found the Golden Rose,” came a strong, womanly voice from behind. “You only pay for two of your meals. The other two are free.”  “Well, thank you, Ma’m,” Big Jake said to her, giving the rest of the party a stern eye to be quiet. “Quite an interesting deal. There a story to that?”  The lady came into view. She was quite obviously the Madame of the place. Dressed in a fancy red velvet with furred trim and showing just a little too much cleavage. Her long, blonde hair sat in multiple curls cascading down her back in waves. The brown eyes, however, were kind, and her mid thirties age did not show on the smooth, round face. Somewhere, this lady had a life of luxury, making Summer wonder when and how things changed. She did have a distinct, southern drawl. Maybe the war between the states drove her to become the Madame in a hole in the wall hotel in the burning sands of the desert.  “It is a little game I play,” the lady said. “The plates were my Nana’s. Well, whats left of them.” A wistful smile crossed her features. “Anyhow, she was quite the painter. My grandfather was an indian, you see. An older man than she by twenty years. He always rambled on about a golden rose legend. So, she painted golden roses on many a things.”  The lady gave a pause. “Until this fool war between the states, my house was full of her works. Now,” the ladies’ eyes fell toward the plate. “This is all I have left. I fled when the Union soldiers burned the estate. It was the only thing I thought to grab.”  The lady brought out a delicate, laced handkerchief and delicately dabbed at her eyes. “Anyhow, I keep the plate as a reminder. It is my way of honoring my ancestors.”  Everyone was quiet for a few moments.  “I am very sorry, Miss,” Big Jake finally managed to say.  “Please, call me Madame Kate, or, Madame K for short,” the lady requested.  Big Jake nodded. “As you wish, Madame K,” he said. “We are sorry for your loss. We understand the importance of honoring your ancestors, and graciously accept.”  “What happened to your grandparents, Madame K?” Summer asked.  The lady again had that same wistful look on her face.  “In 1830 or so, they removed many of the Indian people from the state of Georgia,” Madame K began. “It was an awful time. My Nana-she was from France. Not a lick of Indian in her. Her children-my dear Papa, and an Aunt I have never met, however, were a different story.” She paused, dabbing at her eyes once more.  “Papa passed well enough for a white man. Grandpa-pa and their daughter, however, had become fearful. They had suddenly become targets, it seems, for peoples hatred.” She sighed. “They left, just days before the roundups began. Nana always said he did it to protect her and Papa. They were never seen again.”  Everyone was silent, their eyes wide at the shock of the news. Moon, especially, was having difficulty with this. The emotion was plain on the otherwise reserved face. Finally, she did find the courage to speak.  “Madame K, what was your grandfather’s name?” she quietly asked.  “I don’t know exactly,” Madame K replied. “My Nana and Papa never told me.” She paused, thinking back. “Although, I did hear them talking one time. I heard what I think was my Aunt’s name. It was Rain.”  All eyes now turned to the busty Madame.  “Rain?” Johnny echoed, looking over to his Grandfather.  ’Yes,” Madame K replied. “I am sure that was it.” She dabbed at her eyes. “They never spoke, for fear of being found out, shunned. It broke my Nana’s heart.” She dabbed again at her eyes and started to turn around. “I wish I knew what happened to them.”  “Madame K, I..I think I do,” Said Big Jake quietly. “My wife’s name was also Rain. I found her in the desert. She often said she traveled with her father, a man from the East.” All eyes were now on the older man as he spoke. “We named the ranch after her childhood home-A plantation named the Golden Rose-in Georgia.”  Madame K blinked, an incredulous look crossing her features. “The plantation was in Lumpkin County, between Dahlonega and Auraria,” Madame K told them.  . It is in ruin now, since the Union Army destroyed it.”  “Aoiria means gold,” Johnny said.  Madame K nodded. “Yes.”  “My dear, I believe, that makes me your uncle, if we talk about the same person. Rain was a lovely woman. She passed away some time ago, attempting to save our son and his wife from a fire.”  “Oh....I am sorry.” said Madame K.  After a moment’s pause, she asked, “What do you think happened to my grandfather?  It was Moon who spoke up.  “There was a man, an Apache, that came to our camp,” She began. “He was one of the last guardians of the Golden Rose, along with my grandmother. He was dying, too far gone from exposure of the desert and other injuries.” She turned her dark eyes upon the other woman. “He often spoke of how fond he was of the rain. It did not occur to anyone till now, that he spoke of a person.”  Big Jake stared at Moon. “It seems, we all need to have a talk, and be on the same page,” He said in that no nonsense voice of his.  “Madame K, please sit.”  The group had a lively discussion where everything was laid out onto the table. They thought they were alone, and therefore safe enough to discuss the delicate subjects of the Rose, its guardians, and smooth out the lies.  No one bothered to check, however, on the outside, and the seemingly passed out character on the rickety stick bench. His hat was down over his eyes, bandana up toward his nose. As there was no bank to rob or real law to speak of, he was largely ignored by those who walked by and stepped over his feet. There were drunk miners all over town, many just sleeping it off where they lay. But this man was wide awake, and listening to the clear voices that carried through the door. A sly grin was given that no one saw under that bandana. Josiah congratulated himself on retrieving information so easily, and asked himself why he had not thought of such a clever disuse sooner. Josiah had sent Gustus on a wild goose chase, all in the effort to get him out of town and blow their cover.  Madame K was shocked and sat speechless as the voices dropped and she sat back in order to process what she had been told. The information included what Johnny had found in the attic and what he and Summer figured out on the trail. Now everyone was on the same page.  “I do declare, I just don’t know what to say,” Madame K said after a time. “I...thank you, Big Jake,” she said, leaning in and kissing his cheek. “It is a gift that warms my heart. Thank you for taking such good care of my Aunt.”  Big Jake flashed her a rare smile. “It is my pleasure, but, no thanks are needed. We are family.”  He silently vowed, of course, to have his agents go back East and check out her story. With the war between the states still raging on, however, he knew that information would be hard to come by. In the mean time, he had some ideas for the lady, and would not leave a potential relative without any family support.  Big Jake and Madame K rose from the table and retired to one of the couches, the man intending to talk to the lady in a more private settings about his plans. They all agreed a few days to allow Big Jake set up things he had planned would not hurt, so there was no hurry to pick up provisions just yet. Moon and Summer rose quickly to clear the table and pile the dishes into the kitchen. A strong word from the burly cook was quelled by Madame K, and the man glowered as the lady and the Indian invaded his kitchen. The men got busy and washed down the table. The work was done in a few moments, and the four decided to take a walk toward the general store anyhow to see what was to offer and put orders in for when they did depart.  It was then that the forgotten drunk on the porch made his move. Sliding in to the Saloon, sneaking quietly into the kitchen, Josiah snatched the plate with the golden rose and ran, not returning until the plate was in a safe place where only he would find it.  The General store was in what would become the center of the boom town and was exceptionally large by small town standards. It was easy to see why. Miners spilled out of the doorway, waiting their turn to speak to the overwhelmed shop keep. Thankfully they were able to go in and browse, as long as they did not mind waiting quite a while to be served. Dirty looks were given at both Moon and Dakota, but not a word was said. They looked like they had money, and in this quick start gold town, that was saying something.  Bolts of cloth adorned an entire wall on three shelves, and Summer couldn’t resist being drawn to them in order to touch. Some fabrics and patterns, such as cotton in bold colors and pastel gingham, she was familiar with, as well the course burlap like cloth. Traders that came to her village from time to time. It was the more intricate silks, however, that she spent the most time dwelling on. Their softness was incredible, and texture like none other she had ever seen. A particularly beautiful bolt of cloth caught her attention. A white, shimmering silk, adorned with both golden and iridescent roses, was the most incredible thing she had ever seen.  Dakota, who had his eye on both Summer and Moon in case of trouble, gently nudged his friend and indicated over where Summer stood. Johnny stopped dead in his tracks and words of “What?” The mining shovel he had in his hand clattered to the floor, unnoticed.  Summer was standing in the sunlight, which was taking the gold shot through her auburn tresses of her hair and bringing them to life, creating an almost living flame. The look of awe on her face was akin to the delightful, first time discovery of a kid in a candy store. It was just irresistible, and Johnny found himself across the floor in a heartbeat.  “It’s beautiful,” he whispered, almost in her ear.  “OH!” she cried, startled, dropping the bolt.  Johnny caught the bolt easily and handed it back to her.  “Sorry,” he said sheepishly. “ I did not mean to scare you. Just that, well, you were so enthralled. It suits you.”  “Yes. I have never seen something so beautiful,” Summer  whispered, touching the silk again. “But impractical for our journey.”she placed the bolt of cloth away, and turned, finding Johnny close. Maybe a little too close, which caused her to blush.  Johnny immediately backed up, turning a slight red himself. “You will need something for California, won’t you?” he asked, trying to recover from the deep green of her eyes. There was a light of life in there he hadn’t seen in a long, long time.  “Then, I will get something in California,” she said simply. “there are dresses already, thanks to you and your grandfather’s generosity. But, it is already a big load for so long a journey. The desert will surely ruin such a fine material.”  Summer then left for the other side of the store, where Moon was examining a case full of china dolls.  Johnny glanced back to the silk, then called over the clerks wife as she happened by. 
 
 
 Many purchases were made and ordered, most of it to be picked up just before they would depart. The men announced that they were going to take the few extra days they were granted and check out a gold mine that Moon suspected they had purchased.    “Well, a little extra cash wouldn’t hurt to have for this trip,” Johnny reasoned. “And if the mine is successful, well, we will get an overseer, and share the profits of the mine. If it goes bust..” he threw up his hands. “Small investment.”   “Are all white men so rich?” Summer asked, amazed.  “No.” Was Johnny’s quick answer. “There are many who have far, far less.”  A grim line became Johnny’s lips as his snappy words hung in the air. Without a word, Johnny pushed forward and went into the lands office, a few doors down.   “He has seen a lot of injustice,” Dakota offered as an explanation.  Moon nodded. “But has he seen true suffering?” she asked.  Dakota was ready with the answer. “Yes. He has in many forms.”  All throughout the day, a silent shadow followed at a distance. As it was a very small town-one long street, to be exact-and most the time it was just teeming with people. It wasn’t uncommon for more than one person to be heading your direction. The shadow enjoyed the anonymity, daring fate so much as to be just a step behind them at times.  The ladies said their goodbyes to Dakota, who joined Johnny in the land office. The two had hired a wagon, and were heading the mere eight miles toward the mine they had purchased. Learning of it last night at a card game, the heavy Easterner seemed relieved that these new folk wanted to take it off his hands. It did yield gold, he promised, but his Boston Proper, High Society wife wanted to go back home and leave this evil, heathen, God forsaken place. They could not leave fast enough in fact- the deed and money, having exchanged hands, the couple were out of the territory with the stage coach by first light.  Again, nothing odd in this part of the state, where fortunes are made, and broken, in the space of a day. This made things that were dangerous or life threatening much, much easier to commence. With the little presence of law, the level of murder was at an all time high.  Josiah and his brother Gustus were just that danger lurking in the wings waiting to happen. Already they tailed the West party to Vulture City, on specific orders from Annie. Now, Gustus was busy working along side the new owners of the re-named Foxhole, now of course, the Golden Rose Gold Mine. He was working up a sweat and saying little more than “Yes, Sir,” giving all pretenses of a good lad for a little bit of pay in a gold mine. In reality, he was just looking for an opportunity to do harm, and constantly watched the metal box which held the dynamite sticks.  Back in town, Josiah had changed his clothing, looking like a different man. Strangers floated in and out all the time in this town, so he couldn’t have had an easier time with this. Josiah had noted that the two ladies made slow time back to the saloon. Summer talking a little to some of the ladies that stopped near them. At first she thought they were being friendly. But, in reality, they were really looking to vent their grievances to someone who hadn’t heard them yet. When the women finally made it through the doors, they noticed that little had changed. Big Jake sat in the overstuffed chair they had left him in, lost in his thoughts. Madame K, they found, had excused herself some time ago, to get her ladies ready for the evening. A man sat at the piano, looking over a selection of music for the evening. The burly man that had glowered at them in the kitchen now was stocking the shelves for the nights patrons. A few moments later, a tall stranger joined the group, sitting at the bar. A curious glance from Summer is all he received. She assumed he must have come in fresh off the trail. Though the small hairs upon her neck stood up in alarm. Something about him just didn’t sit well, and as she and Moon sat to enjoy an early dinner or late lunch, Summer vowed to keep an eye upon him.  Josiah just sipped his drink, biding his time to do the harm he planned.  The meal had and table cleared, this time by a few of the girls who were now awake, Summer turned her attention to the man on the piano. She watched him. Something deep within her pulled deep within her to sing. She did, in the privacy of her hogan, and at a few ceremonies. Her voice was high and clear. Her Aunt had also taught her the English, and a few of the tunes that Summer’s own mother had learned to sing while married. Slowly, shyly, she stood, making her way to the piano.   “Greetings, young lady,” he said to the shy beauty as she approached. “Fancy a tickle on the ivory?”  Summer furrowed her brow in confusion.  The man was ever polite, and slid over, making room.  “Do you play, my dear?” he asked again.  Summer shook her head, but sat down, fascinated. Her fingers danced lightly on the keys in front of her, and she smiled at the sweet sounds they made. Something thrummed within her, as if though she was tuned in to the soul music possessed.  “Do you know this one, my dear?” The man asked, handing her a music sheet.  Summer glanced at the sheet, and smiled.   “Yes,” she simply said, forgoing the hows and whys.  The man smiled now, and patted the top of the piano.  “Sit there, and I will play.” he told her.  “Oh but I....” Summer stammered, loosing her confidence quickly. “I ah..”  “You can close your eyes if you wish, though there really is few in the room here.” The man gently insisted.  Summer smiled once more, and, after a moment of inward conflict, she stood and jumped upward, positioning herself on the piano. Summer closed her eyes, and as the music started, she began to sing the sweet lyrics from the late Stephen Foster.  “ Beautiful dreamer, dream unto me, Starlight and dewdrops are waiting for thee’...   Summer sang the entire song, eyes closed, unaware that her voice, so clear, carried out to the dingy, dusty streets and filled passerby’s ears. With so little joy in the desert town, this was a real treat. People who had traded the traditions and culture from the East, suddenly found themselves drawn to the sleek wooden swing doors of the saloon, and into its polished interior. By the time the last note died upon the air, the saloon was full. Summer’s eyes popped open in surprise and she blushed as deep as the amber shades in her hair by the thunderous applause.   “Encore! Encore!” The audience cried. And Summer conferred with the piano man to do another tune.  Something just seemed to happen. People, the townspeople, started ordering something to drink. Not the hardened liquor that the miners drank, but the dusty, hardly touched bottles of wine. There was no bar fight while she sang, but ladies and gentleman sitting on the edge of their seats, enthralled with the pleasant beauty and the golden voice before them. Some also started ordering dinner.   Madame K was delighted.  “This is the type of establishment I would really like to run,” she said to Big Jake.  He nodded. “We will see one day.” He was making no promises till things were confirmed, of course. “Right now, I have a promise to fulfill.”  The crowd enjoyed a round of seven songs, before Summer begged a break. Flushed, she sat down next to Moon after bowing to the applause.   “You are fitting into this world well, my dear,” Moon quietly said.  Though she knew there were many challenges ahead. Out here on a wild west town, they were tolerant. Bigger cities, other places- may not be so.  “To live for the moment was the point, for any moment may be your last,” Moon told her.  Summer nodded. “I know. Aunt, I am going to go upstairs and lay down for a while. I feel a little tired.”  Moon nodded and kissed her forehead, watching the girl go up the stairs. Big Jake joined Moon at the table, and the two entered into a quiet talk about many different things.  In the middle of the songs, Josiah found his chance to slip up the stairs and pop the lock to one of the rooms. A gold nugget to one of the saloon girls got him the information he needed. Josiah was careful not to make a mess, not trying to make this look like a break in. He was about to slip out of the room, in fact, his first search proving futile, when he caught sight of Summer coming up the staircase by herself, he instead backed away from the door. A sinister look slid upon his features. Pushing the hat down over his eyes and the bandana over his face, he slid into the tiny closet and waited.  Summer entered, rubbing the muscles on her neck while glancing in the mirror. Had she really sang in front of so many people? And they liked it? Where was the girl, just a short time ago, who blended into the crowd of her Indian tribe, her friends, and was taught not to draw attention to herself when strangers happened by?  Closing her eyes, Summer whispered.  “Great Spirit, I feel so lost,” She whispered. “I do not know the girl in front of me. Whose child am I? All my life I was taught of you. Are these white men also your children?”   She had heard them be referred to as soulless beasts. Yet, her father was a white man. She must now live as a full blooded white woman. She had seen bad Indians and good. Could it be that, it is the same, despite the color difference? She suspected it was so.  There were so many things she needed to know about herself. So many things she wanted to know. And so many things, she was afraid to know.  Flopping down on the bed, its rickety springs giving protest, she let out a long sigh. A tiny, soft song, native to the Navajo, gently filled the air as it flowed from her lips. A tribute to the Great Spirit, one that mothers sing to take charge of their babies and guide them to a peaceful life while rocking them to sleep. The last notes drifted lazily, as she fell into a light sleep.  Josiah waited until the girls even breathing told him that she was sleeping, before he pushed the door open at a slow pace. For a moment, he stood stock still, making sure that the tiny bit of noise did not wake the sleeping girl.  Satisfied, he stepped out slowly, each step deliberate as to make minimal to none in noise. Finally, he stood over her. He hadn’t been this close to a woman in a very long time, and took a moment to drink in the sweet honey scent she had around her. One filthy hand grasped a stray curl at the end of her long hair, to feel it’s silky softness. It had been months...but that wasn’t on his mind right now. Well, more correctly, it wasn’t his mission. Annie would kill him if he tried.  A reluctant toss of the curl. “One day,” he whispered, promising himself. It was not the young girl he was after right now. Yet.  Turning, Josiah walked out the door, leaving Summer to her dreams. 
 
 
 Back at the mine, Johnny, Dakota and Gustus, whom they thought was named Silas, plus three others who had been former employees of the last owner, had produced the first cart full of gold.    “A good deal, eh, Dakota?” Johnny asked, quite pleased with himself. “I don’t know why this guy gave it up. We need to find a good overseer for this, and get back to it as soon as possible after our business in California.”   “You can head back, brother,” Dakota said, wiping his brow. “I still prefer ranching life.”  “Well, its not so far you can’t visit now and then,” Johnny replied. “Besides. Someone would have to bring back some gold for the old man, yes?”  Johnny continued talking about his plans he had after the escort to California, and Gustus was drinking it in. How sweet that information was to know. It made robbing the stage coach, train, or horse rider that would have the gold in isolated areas that much easier to rob. He wondered how his brother, Josiah, was doing, and if he accomplished his mission just yet. As Johnny and Dakota moved out the first careful of gold then re entered, and went deeper into the mine, he realized he just found the opportunity to complete his mission. Laying the shovel up against the wall, Gustas walked quickly over to the metal box and flipped back the lid.   “Hello, my beauties,” He said with a sneer.   Striking a match against a rock wall, the lit the wicks, and threw the six sticks of dynamite in the same direction the rest of the men went. The moment he threw them, Gustus ran for all his worth out of the mine and into the woods.  No sooner did he get just past the ridge and rolled to the forest floor, came a deep rumble inside the mine, and a huge “BOOM”! Rattled the mountain. Gigantic rocks fell, blocking the once gaping hole that served as the entrance. Pebbles from all size, along with a huge cloud of dust, covered everything in all directions for half a mile. The man cowering on the ground was pelted with debris. Soon as his unexpected shower was over with, Gustus peeked over the rock he dove behind. The entrance way was now just a pile of stones.  An evil laugh escaped his lips. By the time someone would figure out the mine had collapsed, and attempted to dig them out, they would be dead. This made the job they were sent to do so much more easier to accomplish.  Inside the Mine, Johnny opened his eyes slowly to see only pitch black, his calls to Dakota, met with silence. Frantically, he began to feel around him, finding only sharp rocks. At least he wasn’t pinned, which was a miracle in itself. Slowly, he made the attempt to sit up, then stand.  “Dakota!” he said, as loud as he dared. Not knowing the strength of the mine, especially after a blast, Johnny didn’t want to risk another cave in.  “Dakota! Can you hear me?” Johnny cried again. “Anyone?”  A faint moan to his left caught Johnny’s attention, and he began to crawl over towards the noise.  “Dakota? Answer me my brother,” Johnny called out, slowly making his way. The last thing he wanted to do was accidentally step or lean on someone.    “I am alive,” answered Dakota weakly. “I cannot yet move. There is something heavy over my leg.”  “I’m coming,” Johnny told him. “Just hang on.”  In between where Johnny began and Dakota lay trapped, Johnny made the unfortunate discovery of one of the three miners with them. The man was dead, and Johnny’s stomach reeled as his hands felt the hot, sticky sweet blood and other organic matter with his hands.  Poor fellow,” Johnny muttered, trying to find his way around the destruction and finally over to Dakota.   “I am here, brother,” Johnny told him. “Are you hurt anywhere else?”   “No,” Dakota replied. “Strange. As much as rocks fell and trapped us, this rock seems to have saved me.”   Johnny felt around the rock that all but Dakota’s leg was under.  “A good thing,” Johnny told him. “You surely would have been crushed to death.  “Thank you, Great Spirit,” Dakota whispered, then regained his composure. “So, what is on my leg, Johnny?”  Johnny grimaced, as he answered Dakota. “The second miner. First one is over there somewhere.”  “That is a shame,” Dakota said. “There were three of them. Any news of the third?”  “He was near the entrance when we came back here,” Johnny told him. “Maybe he heard the cave in, and got out in time to get help?”  He said hopefully.  “Agreed,” answered Dakota, now attempting to stand up as the others remains were gently removed. “In the meantime, let us try to find another way out of here.”  Gustus reached the town and tried to contain his excitement of a well executed plan. Usually, he screwed something up by this time. He even hit the general store and bought himself some thin cigars made from the much sought after bright leaf tobacco, to celebrate.  Josiah was no where to be found in the saloon when Gustus entered, a signal to his younger brother that the plan is in effect. Big Jake was at the table with Moon, and the other woman was no where to be found. Gustus saw the difference in the crowd in the saloon were of a different caliber, and it was early yet. Not giving the why a second thought, he went about the ancient art of pick pocketing, deciding it would be his lucky day indeed.  At the table, Moon and Big Jake were deep in the middle of many discussions. Some, business like, some, personal. It was no secret anymore, that Big Jake was becoming more infatuated with Moon, and Moon, though quiet as usual, glanced at him sometimes in a certain way. Moon had never been married, forgoing the tradition to take on the task of raising Summer. Madame K had joined the table from time to time, and a deeper understanding between all three, plus a strong bond, finally began to form. They would need to rely on that bond in times to come.  The crowd that gathered earlier on, drawn in by Summer’s singing, had lingered for quite the while, bringing in a nice profit margin for the day. Eventually, as the sun began to set, they made way for the usual rough bunch that could be found on any given evening. The ladies of the night began to descend the stairs one by one, and Madame K became busy hosting the party and seeing to everyone’s needs.   Big Jake and Moon excused themselves, each going upstairs for a spell. Big Jake wanted to catch some rest and get up early, intending to see the mine his grandson’s had purchased. Moon wanted to check upon Summer, who had been napping now for some time.  Gustus had been watching the whole time, while picking the pockets of the rich. Spying the old man and the Indian woman ascending the stairs, he gave a slow pursuit so as to not draw suspicion to himself.  Moon was escorted, on the arm of Big Jake, as was the custom of a gentleman in that day. He tipped his hat, then turned to retire in his own room. Moon watched him go down the hall before entering her own.   Summer lay sleeping on the bed in a curled up fetal position. Moon paused to watch the girl, as she had so many times before since she had entered Moon’s life. The sense of protection swept over the woman once more. From the moment Moon posed as her grandmother, the girl had taken so much meaning to her life. Everyone is born with a purpose. Moon knew hers, and thanked the Great Spirit for such a gift. Bending down, she kissed the girl’s forehead, then stood and turned, to face her own image in the mirror.   It was clear, that she was indeed, falling in love. On this she must be silent and cautious.   The woman lifted up a graying braid and examined it. She also examined her own image. For now, she was dressed in the more traditional white man attire for women; a simple green and white gingham pattern with a buttoned down, collared shirt attached.  Her Navajo heritage was obvious, but in this wild western town, she had yet to experience the pure hatred some had for her people. It was both eerie and refreshing of sorts. Eerie and unsettling, because you never knew who was your enemy. Refreshing, because very little acceptance for any Native American existed in this day and age.  Moon was snapped out of her daydreaming, however, when the unmistakable ring of one, then two shots, rang out.   Summer also jumped straight out of her sound sleep.  “What was that?” She asked.  Moon turned and headed for the door. Somehow, she knew, Big Jake was in trouble, and possibly fighting for his life.  The door was hanging off it’s hinges, and the obvious scuffles of a fight were evident in the room. A chair was broken, so was the mirror. Belongings were scattered over the room. On the floor was Big Jake himself, a flow of blood pooling around his midsection. He was not the only one laying on the floor. Motionless, not far from the elder man, lie Gustus’s still form. His eyes were open in wide surprise, staring up at the ceiling. One neat bullet hole was evident in his forehead.   The man’s luckiest day ended up being his last day on earth.  Moon knelt close to the gasping man, grasping his hand. Big Jake looked at her with tears in his eyes.  “Took me by surprise,” Big Jake stammered. “Two of them. Not sure wh-” he was interrupted by a grunt of pain.  Summer looked around. Where was the other man? A trail of blood leading toward the window told the story. She immediately got up and looked. Blood drew a jagged line across the shingles, and pooled in spots on the ground where a horse obviously had been.  “This was on purpose,” she whispered.  Turning, she saw Moon’s eyes wet with tears, and Big Jake, eyes closed, lay a little too still.  The saloon below was not yet noisy enough to drown out the shots, and Madame K, followed by dozens of gawkers, sprinted up the stairs. Madame K knelt next to Big Jake and bellowed orders for a doctor. As luck would have it, one was in the house.  The man was in his mid thirties, tall and thin, but skilled in his work. Deft fingers inspected the wound. His face was grave and plainly showed his doubts.   “We have to mend the wound,” he announced. “Let us get him to his bed. It is best not to move him to my office at this time. “ A glance to Madame K. “I am not sure he will survive. The wound was deep and did damage to some vital organs, mainly the kidney.”  Summer turned and observed as a group of men quickly did the doctors bidding. Soon, Big Jake was on the bed, Moon quietly by his side, chanting to the Great Spirit to spare the man’s life.  Summer glanced outward again toward the blood spots. If she was quick enough, she just might be able to find the other man’s trail. And what about Johnny and Dakota? They needed to know. It only took a moment for Summer to decide, and out the door she went, not a word to anyone.  Within minutes, Summer was bareback on her horse and riding hard out of town, not knowing that her destination would lead her to both of her objectives at the same time, and more danger than a camp full of soldiers could produce. 
  
 Josiah made his way slowly towards camp and the mine, all the while holding his side and cursing everything he could think of. He had surprised the old man in the room, and had everything under control. The old man had what he wanted, and Josiah believed he was winning in the negotiations. Until Gustus burst into the room. Damn fool. He left his younger brother behind, unaware that he now sang with the angels. In one way, however, Gustas had saved Josiah’s life, as Big Jake, who was stalling for time with the negotiations, went for a small derringer he had hidden. Gustus was shot, and Josiah, enraged, stabbed the old man. He was almost at the window when the old man took aim and fired once more.   Now he was running, and the pace slow only to ease his pain. The destination was first the mine, then the camp near by. He had to make sure Gustus at least did what he was told to do for once. Just the fact he showed up meant at least something happened.  A tumble of block and stone sat outside the ruined entrance of the mine. Josiah jumped off the horse, wincing as his side ached and the pain blinded him a moment. Shaking his head to clear it, his vision picked up the glint of gold just off to the side.  A mining cart, full of gold, lay on its side. The contents within in a spread out pattern. Josiah grinned, and began to help himself. A little extra lining to his pockets for the inconvenience of the injury wasn’t a bad thing in Josiah’s eyes.  After he could hold no more, Josiah turned to examine the entrance to the mine again.   “Nice job, little brother,” Josiah murmured, circling around the wreckage. “Finally, something right.”  “What would that be?” Came a stern female voice.  Josiah whirled. How lucky can a man get? There was the girl he was wanting a mere few hours before, alone and seemingly unarmed. What made it much nicer, is they were a good eight miles outside of town, people, or any type of civilization. An evil grin crossed his features. He could take his time, and no one would hear her scream.  “I ask you again. What did he do right?” Summer demanded, watching his every move like a hawk and keeping a tight hold on the reigns.   Josiah just began to laugh. “Look around, and let me know what you think he did,” he taunted, splaying out a hand in a circular motion to indicate the surrounding area.  Summer glanced, but she could only see a pile of haphazard rocks at first. Slowly, however, details became apparent. The spilled cart of gold. The wood beam with a scorch mark on it.  A sickening feeling began at the pit of her stomach when a horse gave a neigh of pain. She edged her own as close as she could, then dismounted, hands on the reign, to climb a small pile of rocks. There, over the side and down, was the most concrete evidence to what she tried to convince herself not to be true.  Firewind, next to Dakota’s horse, Injun, lay sideways on the ground. A plank protruding from Injun’s right side.  “No...NO!” she screamed, turning around.  Josiah hadn’t moved yet, watching.  “Thats right,” he hissed. “If the horses are there, then your precious cowboy and his sidekick injun...” He let his words die deliberately in the air, and his glance was slow in his turning towards the entrance of the mine.   “NO!” Summer cried, instantly getting his meaning. She flew the short distance to the destroyed entrance, and began pulling at stones, tossing them aside at a frantic pace.  JOHNNY! JOHNNY WEST! DAKOTA!” Summer cried. “Please! Great Spirit! Let it not be so!” She alternated between both English and Navajo without even realizing it.  Josiah was waiting for that moment,unhitched the rope from his saddle, and silently crept towards the frantic girl. If he played his cards right, she would be an easy capture. He was giddy with the deviant thoughts swirling in his mind.  The hackles on her neck rose as danger neared, and it wasn’t until his shadow snuffed out her light that she turned and screamed. Josiah jumped at that moment, and the fight was on. Summer and Josiah rolled off the pile of rocks and onto the desert floor as they scuffled. She was a lot stronger than she looked, and a few well placed shots to the groin and his bullet wounded side had his grip loosen and Josiah howling in pain. This gave Summer an opportunity to scramble to her feet. She would have succeeded, if, in her ascent, Josiah hadn’t reached up to grab her hair and yank the girl back to the ground. Summer let out a blood curdling scream, her head connecting to a small rock, vision bursting into stars. Josiah rolled once more over to the stunned woman, turning her over and yanking both arms behind her. Once upon a time, Josiah and Gusus had lived on a farm, and were well adapt in hog-tying. He was beginning to secure the left leg and arm together when Summer came too and attempted to wiggle free.  “No you don’t,” Josiah pulling the rope tighter and slamming her head sideways to the ground with his knee.  “Now, I have you,” He was panting and sweating, the fight taking much out of his already injured form. As one hand fell to the ground in effort to support himself, Summer made a last ditch effort and lunged for his hand, biting out a chunk of flesh. Josiah screamed at the pain as she tore a nice little hole. His eyes met Summer’s defiant ones, before his fist connected to her face, and her world went dark.  Darkness was all Johnny and Dakota had seen for hours, as they started making their way through the mine. Dakota was convinced there was another exit, according to the blue prints at the Land Owner’s Office. The mountain rumbled every so often, after shocks of the initial explosion. Surprisingly though, the mine was rather well intact about twenty feet or so from the blast site. The dynamite used was of a weak quality, and did not have the full impact of total destruction that the brothers were hoping for. They were not without injury, however.  Though mostly cut and bruised, Dakota’s ankle was broken, and walked with his adoptive brother’s arm around the waist, his own arm over Johnny’s shoulders  They had to stop several times to give both a rest. Their strength was waning, however, and thirst was a growing problem. The only encouragement, is that the mine seemed to be going up instead of down, into the mountain. The other upside was, should they survive this, the men her discovered with the strike of the last match, the mine was full of gold and other minerals. For now, however, it only put more question on why the previous owner had been so anxious to get rid of it, and their expedient departure.   “It still doesn’t make any sense, Dakota,” Johnny told him on one such break. “I am beginning to wonder if this was a set up instead of an accident. None of the pieces fit together. We checked the beams ourselves before entering. I just can’t shake that gut feeling.”  Dakota was beginning to agree with Johnny that it was a possibility. Why was the question he had. Going over the reasons in his mind seemed to ward off hunger, thirst, and the growing suspicion that he was wrong about another way out.  Time continued to pass, and suddenly, the two found themselves at a dead end. Sitting, they argued about going back.  “It would take weeks for them to get that deep into the mine,” Johnny stated. “We have to go on.”  “I was wrong, brother,” Dakota countered dejectedly. “I thought for sure I had seen another way out on the map.”  “Well, do you think it would be just a big, gaping hole for us to find? For anyone to walk into?” Johnny asked, running a hand through his hair.  “No.” Dakota said, falling silent.  “Johnny.”  “Yeah, Dakota?” He replied.  “What was the name of the mine before we bought it?” Dakota asked.  “Foxtrot?” Johnny answered, then shook his head. “No. Foxhole.”  “Yes. Clever creature, the Fox,” Dakota said, hoping Johnny would catch the meaning.   “Yes. Always has a backdoor, the fox does, to outsmart both hunter and wolf,” Johnny said almost robotic-ally, as he repeated a long ago lesson from their grandmother Rain.   “So, where would we look for such a clever exit?” Dakota asked. Johnny stood up, glancing around. Of course, it was still black as night, and, as actual night had fallen, any small opening would be near impossible to see.   Unless it was lit, with a single ray of moonlight.  Above, the clouds broke and cleared out the sky, revealing the full of the moon. That light filtered through the air, illuminating the desert and mountains below and bright as day. The wall Dakota was sitting next to was twinkling from the gold and gems in the rock wall. Johnny started laughing as he realized what shape they resembled.  Dakota turned to look, and grinned.  Someone had taken the time to arrange the precious metals and stones into the exact shape of a running fox.  Johnny reached up a hand, letting the light play upon his palm.  “Well I’ll be,” he exclaimed, glancing upward. A hole, around 2 feet in diameter, and nearly that in circumference, was carefully covered by thick vines and tree roots easy enough to break. It sat slightly sideways, and was built in a slope halfway up the mountain, so it was not very easy to spot from the outside. Johnny easily broke the small roots, and cleared away the vines. Giving Dakota a boost, the hole seemed to swallow him up. Johnny grabbed hold of the vine Dakota snaked through for him, and emerged. Both took in deep breaths of fresh air and looked upon the night’s sky for the first time in over twelve hours.  Back in town, Big Jake was asleep upon the bed, Moon and Madame K never leaving the man’s side. A fever began to rage through the man’s body following the surgery’s attempt to patch the gaping hole. Now, all they could do was sponge him down, and wait to see if he would live or die. The saloon was strangely quiet for this time of night, as Madame K told everyone to leave so Big Jake and the doctor would not be disturbed. Both women feared the worst. They had not yet noticed that Summer was gone, simply assuming the girl had taken to her bed. There was little more anyone could do for now.  Summer groaned and attempted to pull the blanket up over her as she slept. But the absence of any covering and the sharp pains in her limbs as she tried to move forced the girls eyes to open wide. Memories of the last place she was and her precarious position flooded her mind in an instant, causing Summer to thrash in a blind moment of panic.  This motion only forced the man next to her to stir and moan. Terrified, Summer turned her head and nearly screamed.  The man’s face was twisted in pain, as the bullet in his side put a stop in his plans and forced him to lay down as a fever took hold of his body. Her new attempt to get up and flee only produced a new wave of aches and pains. She finally realized the seriousness of her predicament. Summer’s hands were bound together and tied to a bed post, her legs open and ankles individually tied to more at the end of the bed. A crude tent in only the Great Spirit knew where covered them both from easy sight. Most of her dress was missing-she was clad only in her undergarments-the still unfamiliar sleeveless camisole and a thin, cotton, almost transparent underskirt.  Ironically, the heat from the burning fever was the only true warmth, as temperatures began to plummet towards freezing for the night.  “Great Spirit, help me,” she whispered to the silent stars.   Coming down the mountain proved to be more difficult than it looked, even with the bright, full moon to guide them. Dakota’s ankle slowed progress down even more. It took teamwork that the two haven’t experienced since they were boys, when they went mountain climbing and nearly fell on the clifside. Dakota lost his footing, knocking into Johnny. The two sat the night on a ledge, debating how to get down. They both agreed to wait till daybreak, and took most of that day to get off the cliff side. Rain had been worried about them and Jake was out leading a search party. The two thought fast of an explanation and tag teamed the couple, avoiding a major whipping and punishment.  Now, the two depended on each other more than ever while descending the slippery slope. More than once, one or the other lost footing, only to be saved by the quick actions of the other. By the time they reached the entrance of the cave and marveled at the damage, the first streaks of sunlight poked holes through the dark clouds of the day.   “Storm coming,” Dakota said, lifting his face to the wind. “Not a good one, either.”  Johnny nodded while he surveyed the damage to the mine. His brow furrowed at the overturned cart. He knew it was full of gold, for he was the one who mostly filled it to it’s brim. The remaining gold that glittered on the ground was a tenth of what originally was there.  “Someone’s been here,” Johnny said.  “Johnny-come here.”  The serious, broken tone of his adopted brother had Johnny sprinting to his side. Down below lay both Firewind and Injun, dead from their injuries from the fallen rock and exposure of the cold night.  “Damn,” Johnny exclaimed.  “Long walk back to town,” Dakota stated.  “Yeah,” replied Johnny, leaning against the rocks with a sigh.  Just then, the distinctive neigh of a horse rang through the forest. Brow furrowed, Johnny turned to the two dead horses, then started to scan the horizon line as the grey dawn lightened a bit more.  Summer’s horse came into view.  “Spirit,” Dakota whispered. “What is she doing here?”  “Good question,” Johnny said. “I have a bad feeling, it is not going to be a good answer.”  Both men moved slowly, as to not frighten the horse. Hungry, distrustful, the horse shied away at first, until familiar scents filled her nostrils. Slowly the horse approached, eying both of them. The small wound on the horses neck showed the reason for her sudden distrust.   “Easy girl, easy,” Johnny said, watching the horse’s every move. “We are not going to hurt you. It’s us. Johnny and Dakota.”   Slowly Johnny made his way, finally managing to lay a gentle hand on the horses’ nose.  Dakota spied something on the ground, near to where the horse appeared. Backing up slowly, he reached the article, and bent slowly to pick it up as Johnny continued to distract Spirit. What he found made him gasp.  “Johnny...it is a piece of Summer’s dress. Torn.”  Johnny’s brow furrowed, and he turned to Dakota’s direction to see.  “None of this makes any sense, Dakota,” he said. “Why would she come out here? Where were the others? And the gold,” he added, nodding towards the upturned cart. “She would not steal. Who else has been here?”  A glance down at the fabric in his hands brought the only logical response.  “There has to be big trouble, Johnny. She, or something happened in the town. Maybe she was looking for us.” 
 
 
 “We have to get back to town,” Johnny said matter-of-affectedly. Within minutes, they were both mounted on Spirit and riding at a breakneck speed towards Vulture City.   Summer woke as sunlight flooded the tent and brightened her eyelids. She had tried to scream for help, but the gag held firm. Her body was numb from the cold temperatures. A quick assessment of herself told her that the feverish man had awoken at one time and attempted his evil deed once more. Thankfully, the pain was too great, and he failed a second time. Bucking hard, she managed to roll him off of her. It was his odd, stiff movement that had her screaming for help again.  Josiah was dead.  She was out in the desert, barely dressed, tied up, and now alone. Would help reach her in time? Anyone could come across her, and there were men far more unscrupulous and dangerous than even Josiah. Frantically, Summer began to pull at her the bonds over her hands once more.  It was mid morning by the time Johnny and Dakota had reached Vulture City. The teeming streets of yesterday were oddly quiet  and empty. Rounding the corner and down the street gave the answer to where everyone seemed to be. The Saloon was packed, wall to wall people. A quick inquiry brought both, broken ankle and all, bounding through the clouds and up the steps, almost bursting into the room. People quietly parted like the Red Sea when Johnny bellowed, “Coming Through!” Quick as a wink, they burst through the door.  “How is he?” Both demanded.  The doctor looked up from his examination.  “He is holding his own, but very weak. It will be a few more days before we know for sure.”  Both men crossed the room and stood at each side of the bed as each Madame K and Moon stepped back. The man who had such a huge influence in so many lives lay still, way to pale and ashen for anyone’s liking.  “What exactly happened?” Johnny demanded to know.  Quickly both men were filled in on the details, causing their jaws to tighten.  “Where is Summer?” Dakota asked suddenly, remembering the dress.  “She must still be in bed,” Moon replied. “I have not seen her since this had happened.”  “There was nothing for her to do, so-”Madame K started, but stopped short at the look between the men. “What’s wrong?”  Neither said anything as they both bolted for the other room.  Everything was neat in appearance, except for the coverings on the bed. Askew from the day be fore’s events and the quick rise of it’s occupants. A search through the saloon and then the town revealed what Dakota and Johnny already knew.  Summer was missing.  A young woman approached, saying she remembered the pretty girl who sang in the saloon went riding on horseback, hell bent for leather shortly after the shooting occurred. When asked what direction, the two soon were headed that way themselves, back towards the mine.  A second search revealed little else at first. There were many hoof prints, possibly made by Summer’s horse when she went missing.  “Do you think she is in the pile of rocks?” Dakota asked.  Johnny shook his head. “No. The piece of fabric you found was over there, away from the carnage. Maybe she was thrown from the blast and disoriented?”  “That’s a possibility,” summarized Dakota. “It is obvious she did not go back towards town.”  Johnny glanced around. Two directions led to the desert, and the bend of the mountains connected them to one road-back to Vulture City. His instinct told him that was not the way to go. One direction led into the mountains, the other, straight up a jagged cliff.  “Why don’t you stay here, Dakota? In case she comes back,” Johnny said, looking at his ankle.  “Are you sure, brother?” Dakota asked, not quite so fond of the idea.   “Yes. Your ankle needs a rest. Besides, if she is hurt, she will need help. I’d feel better knowing someone is watching out for her than Summer laying on the ground by herself.”  That is exactly what Summer was doing. The attempts to free herself were again futile, and her body felt as if it was on fire. She was not sure if she had a fever, or was about to suffer the madness some did before freezing to death. Once more she attempted to scream around the gag, but her throat was horse, and the taste of cotton with a dry mouth was truly awful. She glanced at Josiah’s dead form once more. Tiny scavengers made there way already to his corpse. She knew, it was only a matter of time before bigger predators found their way to an easy meal. Summer fervently prayed to the Great Spirit that she too, would be dead before they would begin to gnaw on her.  Johnny began his search immediately, going on foot with only a knife and his gun, which he made sure was loaded. Dakota gave him a few extra rounds just in case, and gave him the arm to elbow shake with a promise to be careful. Dakota sat to rest his broken ankle and bind it, then start praying to the Great Spirit for a good ending to all this.  Johnny started shouting Summer’s name over and over again, but only five time and in two minute intervals. He had been on rescue missions before, and knew how quickly a throat could go sour and be useless at the time when it was needed. So he gauged himself as he searched, pacing his steps and listening carefully to as not miss that one faint moan that may mean the difference of life or death. He ignored the hunger pains in his stomach, only noticing that the sun would be setting soon. Temperatures may be hot in the day, but these mountains were mercilessly cold during the night. He now firmly believed Summer had been out here for at least one full day, going into the second. Maybe she was raised Indian, that fact giving her a better chance than most, but the thought of her injured enough to become disoriented and wander off would bring the strongest of men to their knees.  “Summer! Where are you? Make any noise if you are here!” he yelled a while later, coming to a small clearing. “Summer!”  Nothing, save the chirp of the insects and movement of small animals. A glance upwards as colors started to paint the sky. An hour left, then it would be dark once more.  At least he would have the moon to guide his way.   “Grandmother Rain,” He whispered to the winds. “I am in need of your guidance. Please. Great Spirit, show me where she is, please. Let it not be too late for her, or Big Jake.”  Johnny closed his eyes and calmed his breathing. He became in tune with the noises of nature, slowly turning them out of his mind, save the wind. The impending storm had held off most of the day, now let loose a fine sheen of rain. Johnny embraced it, always he had, since he was a little boy. His mind took him back to that first memory, when the crops were dying and the animals miserable in their thirst. A drought had struck the entire country, and the heat was excruciating. Not able to hold off any longer, Rain dressed herself, his mother, Dakota, and Johnny in full gear, ready for a rain dance to commence. Both boys loved the colorful masks and ran around trying to scare the two women before Rain was ready to make their rain sticks. Using dried, hallowed out cactus tubes, the boys pushed thorns through the skin, then placed marbles and dried rice inside. Both ends were then sealed. What great fun it was to shake them and hear the rain sounds! The zig-zag patterned dance proved little challenge for the energetic boys, and the songs they knew by heart. Even their mother, the educated, genteel soul from Boston proper, let her hair fly in the wind as she danced with grace in the dust and dirt. It wasn’t even thirty minutes after the dance began, when the skies darken, and the rain drenched them in buckets. What fun it was to dance then in the rain, despite the droopy feathered headdresses!  “Grandmother, how did you know it would rain?” Johnny had asked while she dried him off later that night.  “I know, because the signs were there for it to rain,” she replied, and her words were often in riddles. “Look always for the signs. The Great Spirit puts them there for us to see. It is wanting to see, that many are blind.”  “Like what signs?” Johnny insisted.  Rain just smiled. “Watch the birds. When they gather in masses, you’ll know. Watch the ground. When flowers close up their petals, and it is not yet sunset, you’ll know. Watch the leaves. When they turn upside down, you will know. There are many other signs. Animals will always tell you. Then you follow them, especially if it is a path straight as the crow flies.”  Johnny opened up his eyes, squinting as the rain, now a steady, pelting thrum, dripped into them. He mulled the words over and over in his head.  “Birds..” just before he came to the clearing, he had seen a mass of birds ahead of him, heading the same direction he was going. Now..in that same direction, a new danger loomed. Anxious to get out of the storm was the unmistakable shape of a large bear. Drawn by the smell of death, the bear had traveled out of his normal range to find the quick meal. Now the rain only aggravated it.   A sickening feeling caused Johnny to feel as if he had been punched in the stomach. He followed the great bear, hoping he was wrong, that it was not too late.  The rain woke Summer up, and she moaned in agony as the cold rain drenched her skin and seemed to add weight to the numb and taunt muscles. She was in this position for much to long. She was here for much to long. Surely, someone would have looked for her by now? But even if they did, how would they find her way out here. At least the rain was washing away the acrid smell of Josiah’s now rotting flesh. It should keep the big predators away for a while, at least, she hoped.  Those hopes were dashed moments later when an unmistakable sound of a bear-a grizzly- made his appearance known outside the tent. Unable to control her fear, she let out a muffled scream, only alerting the agitated animal to her presence. Forcing herself to lie very, very still, but unable to control the trembling, she could only watch during flashes of lightning as the great snout poked under the tent, then emit a deep, low growl. In an another flash of light, the great maw opened up, and Josiah s body quickly disappeared from her view.  Summer cried, her tears mixing with the rain. The hungry bear would surely be back for her. In her foggy state of mind, total fear kicked in and she thrashed wildly as Johnny’s hand touched her shoulder a few moments later.  “SUMMER! SUMMER ITS ME, JOHNNY!” he shouted, trying to get her under some kind of control. At least, thank the Great Spirit, she was alive. The state of undress she was in and her position told the story in a heartbeat, and he only wished he had beat the bear to the man himself.  Unsheathing his knife, he made quick work of the now wet ropes and ripped the gag from her mouth. Choked screams and sobs filled the air, as her limbs made clumsy movements to bat away what she thought was sure death.  Fiery pain shot through Summer’s body as the blood attempted to flow back into limbs far cut off from circulation. It proved to be too much, and as Johnny gathered her into his arms close to his chest in the effort to sooth her, she went limp. Though his own jacket was wet, he covered her with it, and started immediately to put distance between the two of them and that bear. 
 
 
 What took Johnny a day to travel, took him a day and a half to get back, thanks to the wicked rain and the precious cargo he carried. She wasn’t particularly heavy by herself, but through muddy fields and his own heavy coat over her and drenched clothing, he had to stop and rest often. He did not curse the rain, however, for he knew that, once that bear was done with his meal, he might pick up their scent and attempt to track it. The more distance he put between them and the heavier the ran came, just might discourage the wayward bear to return to his own territory and loose interest. He only took shelter under a small ridge that offered some protection when his own body forced him to stop and regenerate, and only allowing it when he thought he put enough distance between them and the animal.   Summer, still cradled in his arms, still had not awakened. Her face was just as pale as Big Jake’s when he saw him last. This definitely wasn’t good, nor was the heat that now came off her own body. The rain did nothing to cool her down.   Johnny only slept for a few hours, tried to get droplets of water down Summer’s throat and past her dry, cracked lips, then continued on, vowing not to stop until he reached where Dakota waited. 
 
 
 Dakota was contemplating going after Johnny himself when the person he watched for appeared over the ridge at a distance. Dakota did not hesitate, and the closer he came, the clearer he saw that Johnny was to the point of exhaustion, and guessed correctly that he carried Summer all the way back from where she was found. The deplorable state of the girl and the anger in Johnny’s tired eyes told him what had transpired, confirmed by the girl’s state of undress, quickly noted when Dakota peeled back Johnny’s wet coat and placed a warm, dry blanket around her.   “She is burning up,” Dakota announced to himself. Johnny, already knew, and wasn’t feeling to well himself.  “Can you save her, Dakota?” Johnny asked.  “We will see, brother,” was Dakota’s reply. “Come. I have made a shelter to keep us all warm and dry. You need to hang your wet clothes up too, or I will be trying to save both of you.  Dakota had a strong, unique foresight, and already had tea and a wild onion soup at the ready. A small miners cabin was on the land, and he discovered it when the rain began. A blazing fire a cup of herbal tea and a warm soup, all foraged from the surrounding woods, awaited them. Johnny refused to eat first, instead, taking a cloth, he dipped it into first the tea, then the soup, until every last drop was past Summer’s blistered lips. Dakota finally got the stubborn Johnny to eat, drink and rest, but only after the promise to wake him if something should change with Summer, or trouble was brewing. Dakota voiced what really didn’t need to be said, only for the sake of his tired adopted brother’s sake.  Once Johnny was under a warm, dry blanket and lightly snoring, did Dakota start examining the girl’s wounds, assessing her fever and chances for survival. They still looked grim, but at least the rain and cold could do no more damage. Dakota stopped to stare at the delicate chain and the small pendent of the golden rose, the very thing that so many had unnecessarily died for, and ultimately, pulled them all to this forsaken place. He considered ripping it off the girl’s neck, but the laws of honor, taught by his ancestors and handed down, and by his grandmother, Rain, prevented him from doing so. Besides, many would still hunt for the legendary Golden Rose, pendant or no pendant. Lastly, it wasn’t his to take, and he harbored no hatred or ill will toward the woman or her aunt.  Now, he worked hard to save her. Through the rest of the day and night, while Johnny slept, Dakota chanted songs and crushed herbs continuously for divine intervention from the Great Spirit to do just that.  While Johnny and Dakota were locked in their own battle, Madame K and Moon had their own. So far, Big Jake had not improved to the doctor’s liking, and his chances of survival started to dwindle. The ladies took turns sleeping, eating and Madame K reluctantly had to see about her business at times. She was also a trooper in keeping Moon’s spirits from plummeting about her granddaughter.   “I am sure she will be alright,” Madame K said gently. “You raised her, as you told me. I know you would expect nothing less from her than to remember what you taught and apply it to the situation. They will find her, you will see,” she would say.  All in all, Madame K wasn’t completely convinced that all would be so well, given the amount of time, three days, that have passed.  But it was nice to see Moon smile, and the assurance in her voice was soothing to Moon’s morale and spirit. Madame K only hoped she was right.  At the cabin, Dakota straddled a stick-wood chair, his head resting on the back of it, dozing slightly. Johnny was sleeping on the other side of where Summer lay, one hand interlaced with hers. Somehow, Johnny felt that if he had some physical connection, he could keep her spirit grounded here. Good news was that the fever had broke sometime during the night. The bad news lurked just past the trees, pacing back and forth, as if determining it’s first move.  Summer’s eyes opened, and she slowly focused on the cabin ceiling. The agonizing pain in her limbs had dulled greatly and was almost gone. One arm lifted, and she realized quickly that she was free, dry and warm. A glance to each side revealed two of the people Summer thought she would never see again.  “Dakota?” she asked weakly. “Johnny? Are you a dream?”  Dakota sprang instantly awake, and smiled down at her.  “Welcome back,” He said. “You gave the Death a run for it’s money, you know.”  She blinked in confusion. “What..where is that man..Jo.Josiah,” she asked, fear causing her voice to quiver.  “Josiah?” Dakota repeated. Somehow, that name rang a bell somewhere. “Is that the man who...kidnapped you?”  “Yes.” she simply replied.  “He is dead. Killed by a bear,” Dakota informed her.  “A Bear?” she blinked, and suddenly the memory popped back into her head, of the great maw opening up, eyes flashing in the jagged lightning, and then-poof-gone.  “I remember,” she said weakly, running a hand through her hair.   “Where are we?”  “We are at an old miners house, just a quarter of a mile from the mine,” Dakota told her. “Not the best, but got us all out of the rain and warm at the same time.” He indicated towards the roaring fire.  Summer nodded.  “I’m so thirsty,” She said. “May I please have some water?”   Dakota jumped off the chair, making his way over to the bucket near the door. It was empty.  “Be just a minute,” Dakota told her, slipping out the door.  The appearance of a human was the convincing the bear needed. The course hair stood up all over it’s body, a definite sign of agitation, and it lunged out from behind the tree.  Dakota had only seconds to do something, anything, but short of having a sharp weapon and lightning speed against a charging grizzly is of little use. With a swipe of it’s massive paw, Dakota, the bucket, and ladle went flying. Turning to go for the kill, the bear paused, sniffing the air. Weakness...it knew Summer’s scent, as it was over the one it’s cubs made short work of. A bellow into the air, and the bear turned towards the door of the cabin.  Johnny popped straight up at the bellow of the bear and stared at Summer. He was happy to see her awake, but every muscle in his body was tense, and he motioned for her not to move.  A tense moment passed, before seven hundred and fifty pounds of bear crashed right thought the solid oak door like a knife to butter.  The great bear roared at them both, baring it’s teeth. Death was in those eyes, and those eyes were trained right on Summer. Johnny knew in a heartbeat it was the same one from the tent, that had devoured the dead man. The scent of Josiah must still be on Summer’s clothes, and the bear, thinking more of it’s kill was to be devoured.  Summer couldn’t even scream, she was so terrified. Bears she had seen before, but not one this close, or this..hungry. Johnny was tense, ready to spring, his mind reeling wildly on what to do, while not taking his eyes off the bear.  Everything seemed to stand still in a endless moment of time.  Then it all happened at once.  The bear bellowed again and lunged, its great jaws open and at the ready to grab and devour. Johnny grabbed Summer and, in one quick motion, rolled both of them forward off the bed and onto the floor. The springs of the bed groaned and snapped, making a slight musical note, and would have been good for a chuckle if not for the seriousness of the situation. The bear thrashed around the blankets, knocking over the lantern. Glass shattered, and the flame licked at the sheets as they were knocked to the floor.  Summer was limp, and a dead weight, but Johnny didn’t notice as he had one arm under her own and across the chest, dragging the girl slowly with him towards the corner. Johnny’s eyes never left the bear, which turned to face its prey. Livid at the temporary loss of it’s meal, the bear stared, flames now bringing an evil life flashing in its eyes. A deep, low growl emitted from it’s stomach and grew to an ear splitting bellow of anger. Johnny again tensed, ready to make the next attempt of getting out of its way.  The bear didn’t move.  Flames shot upwards, flying up the sheets and blankets at a breakneck pace, surrounding the bear. It bellowed again, this time out of pain as the heat singed it’s fur. The bear thrashed again, this time in the futile attempt to put out the smoldering embers lighting upon it’s back. Finally the bear made it’s move, and ran with lightning speed towards the door, the angry bellow echoing off the rock walls and lingering long after it fled into the woods.  Johnny, relieved the bear escaped, quickly assed their chances to getting out. The door was almost blocked by a raging wall of fire, so quickly consuming the ages old dried out timber of the shack. They had just one shot- straight through the flames.  “Ready?” Johnny asked Summer, but gave her no time to reply, even if she could. Gathering her up in his arms, covering her again with his jacket, which lay upon the chair he was next too, Johnny made a full speed dash through the blaze and tumbled out the door.  Dakota moaned and awoke at the angry bellows of the exiting bear, and scrambled to his feet when he saw the fire. The bear flew by, a bright red and yellow streak in the air, crashing recklessly through the underbrush. Turning, his vision swimming from the concussion he now suffered, Dakota looked for his brother and the girl.  “JOHNNY!” he cried, coming closer in the attempt at a rescue. Seeing how fast the cabin was being consumed, and the blocked entrance, however, put his plans to a halt.  It was at that time that Johnny came barreling out the door, Summer in his arms, and rolled around on the ground. The smell of singed skin hung in the air, and Johnny finally was still, covering over Summer and gasping for breath. There were bad burn marks on his arms and back from the blaze. Dakota got to his side and helped Johnny up, wanting everyone away from the cabin as quickly as possible. Soon as they were out of range, there was a gigantic CRACK, and the cabin collapsed.  Dakota helped Johnny mount the horse, and handed him up Summer. Taking the reigns, they immediately left for Vulture City. 
 
 
 The morning routine had just started when Madame K gave a startled shout as she filled a bucket with water from the small town well. The image of Dakota, leading a horse with two riders, came into view, back lit by the rising sun. She ran towards the figures, stopping only a few feet from them. What she saw stopped her joyous words that formed in her throat. Instead, she blinked and cried, “What happened?” and scurried toward them once more to help.   “We found her in the mountains. Kidnapped,” Johnny told her, not giving any detail otherwise. “The man who did it, however, shot. Most likely the one Big Jake shot from his room.”  “We think she came to get us, and was injured, disoriented by the cave in of the mine,” Dakota added.  “Cave in? Your gold mine?” Madame K asked, as they walked back toward the saloon. “I’m sorry to hear that.”  “Thank you, “ Johnny said simply. “When we found her, she was bound, gagged. The man was dead, and taken by a bear.” Johnny shook his head. “The bear followed us, and nearly had us. But it knocked over a lantern in the cabin we took shelter in, and took off.”  Madame K just shook her head in disbelief at the wild tale. She had heard many since here arrival in these parts, but this had to be one of the craziest, and considering the source, truest tale yet. Madame K began shouting orders, and the burly bartender and kitchen staff came running at at her command to help. He took Summer from Johnny and whisked her away up the stairs to one of the empty beds.  Summer out of his care, Johnny slumped against the horse as he jumped out of the saddle. The early morning’s events and the hefty burn marks taking its toll. But he would not disgrace himself by passing out from pain on the street. He did accept help, however, from Dakota as they ascended the staircase, and collapsed only when an empty bed and only his brother’s eyes bore witness to his fatigue.  The doctor was quickly summoned to look in on all of them. Summer would survive, and, happily, there was only evidence of an attempted deflowering was the scratches on her legs and the cruel marks still visible by the tight ropes. Her fever broken and the wonders performed by Dakota gave an assurance that rest, food and water would have her ‘right as rain’ in a few days or so.  Dakota’s head injury was serious, but, considering the source, not as severe as it could be. Rest, food, and drink was also prescribed for him. An extra instruction was to have him waken every few hours to make sure he would do so.  Johnny’s burns were salved and dressed. Rest was ordered for him as well, and the doctor would check closely on his wounds for any sign of infection.   “These boys should be given a medal for rescuing this girl,” Was the doctor’s final recommendation.  Big Jake was improving, but still hadn’t yet woke. The fever was gone and his side was healing nicely. Infection didn’t set in, which now t rippled his chances of surviving the brutal knife attack. In truth, an inch in a different direction would have told a very different story.  The doctor also examined Moon, much to her discomfort. She was showing signs of fatigue as she slaved over the care of Big Jake, and a chair was moved into the room so the lady could at least sleep comfortably since she refused a bed.  Madame K was also ordered to get a bit of rest, as the stress of the entire situation was showing on the kind woman’s face.  As a result, the miners found their beloved saloon temporarily closed, something that had every man within thirty miles of the town grumbling and cursing up a storm.  The rest was needed , however, and definitely appreciated. Dakota was the first to wake, showing that, whatever Indian group he came from genetically, could certainly take a beating on the noggin. It was hard to get him to take it easy, as Dakota thought it his duty to take care of everyone else that was not as well as he felt.  The dizziness he felt from time to time forced him to sit, but only until it passed, and he was up on his feet again, doing for others as best as he could. It was guilt that drove him, a deep, secret guilt and shame for his thoughts back at the cabin of ill will towards the girl he had cared for.  Something, that could potentially drive a wedge between himself and those he loved deeply.  Big Jake was the next to awaken. He opened his eyes and studied the sleeping Indian woman next to him. Yeah. It was happening all over again. A woman that needed help, lied to him first, and, interestingly enough, the truth being told about the same damn artifact, the golden rose, overtook his life.  That, and feelings of love, long thought buried, began to stir. This woman was so much like his Rain. Her eyes flew open as Big Jake did what Dakota called the ‘Grumpy Man, Good Nature d Bellow’, meaning the elder West started shouting orders in a gruff voice, all while having a smile upon his face. Though it would take a bit longer time wise for him to completely get out of the bed, Big Jake was back to his boisterous self. Everyone was glad, and preferred the cantankerous old soul compared to the still, near death figure he had been just days before.  Summer slept for days, the events of her capture and the sordid attempt of the man completely draining any and all strength that she had. In her dreams, she was back in the Indian camp, which seemed just a lifetime ago. She was happy, free, playing with her friends a game of stick ball. In her dreams, a coyote lingered.  The symbol of change...  and her dream did change. She was a baby, with people she didn’t recognize, but some how knew. They were sitting outside, tumbleweeds rolling by with the hot wind. But it didn’t matter to the chubby, smiling baby as tiny fists grabbed a handful of frosting and cake. Dark clouds suddenly loomed at the edge of her small horizon, and the people screamed, disappearing in a heartbeat. Alone now, the baby cried, and a great bear arose, consuming her with one gulp. The baby screamed, and all went black.  Unbeknownst to her, Summer also screamed out loud, bringing Madame K, Moon, Dakota running.  She lay, wide eyed and finally awake, but frozen in terror. Frantic eyes glanced around the room, and she screamed again as those who cared about her burst in the door.  “Summer! Whats wrong dear?” Madame K cried.  “My beloved, calm, calm,” Urged Moon. “Star-that-shines, easy.”  “It is my doing,” Dakota thought, slipping back out into the hallway. The thoughts he had of how things had changed, almost had him killing the girl instead of helping her. He knew it was wrong, knew it was foolish, knew it was tiredness and stress that caused the thoughts. It did not quell the emotions of guilt and betrayal he felt, even if he was the only one who knew. Well, he and the Great Spirit.   Both women went to a side of Summer’s bed, their soothing tones bringing the girl out of her stupor and into the arms of her aunt. Finally, she was in her right mind, overwhelmed still, of what had happened, but finally making the step to release the emotion. The first step, towards healing and moving forward.  Johnny too, slept for days, but the good news is that no infection seemed to be setting in to the deep tissue damage from the fire. It may be a while before he regained his strength, and the full use of his arms. Discomfort would be his companion for a long while. For now though, at least he was getting better.  A relieved sigh seemed to ripple through the town, as many had been secretly praying for the quadruple patients. Madame K allowed a limited opening of the Saloon, cutting off the miners fun at midnight, so her guests and new found family could gain more of the much needed rest. The miners still grumbled and cursed, but at least some booze and loose women were better than the ten days they had to endure without both.  When Johnny did awake, Big Jake was finally out of bed, and at his grandson’s side.  “Well, now my boy, it is about time that you woke up,” growled the old man. “Them lazy bones need to get up and walk around, enjoy some of the sunshine, and fine sites that Vulture City has to offer.”  Johnny blinked, and did his best to hide the amused smile that threatened to appear on his lips.  “Fine sites of Vulture City, huh?” Johnny echoed, attempting to sit up. His wince brought a momentary frown to Madame K’s features, but he struggled and managed to sit completely up.  “Well, what fine sites would that be, Pops?” Using the playful nickname that the old man publicly loathed, but secretly enjoyed.   “Well now, lets see,” Big Jake began, enjoying the light banter. “The blazing sunrise in the morning, illuminating the golden, dusty streets and fine facades of stores and saloons. Then of course there are the five star establishments that give the town character. A huge general store with prices twice the amount of most other places around. “ A glance towards Madame K and a wink. “Of course there is this fine saloon with beautiful ladies and lively music. Prices are slightly exuberant there too,” A wink to Madame K, “ but its worth it. Ran by a fine woman and a giant of a bar keep. But finest drink and company this side of the Mississippi.”   Johnny was doing his best, but the laughter bubbled up inside, and hurt his ribs as he was desperate to keep it in. But Big Jake was relentless. Sensing he had found a nerve, the man continued.  “Then of course, just a few short horse feet away trough balmy desert sands and dodging sinister, native animals, lie the gold mines. These tough, back breaking mines offer long hours and muscle aching reward for a few ounces of gold each day. Guaranteed cure for those with nothing to do, to suddenly find something to do.”  Johnny was in tears, choking back the pain between the bite hold on his own tongue and the sharp jabs from his wounds as skin and bones stretched to allow the choked back laughter.  Big Jake moved in for the kill.  “Finally, Vulture City has the finest array of black bears in the not so far off mountains. Why, their fur gets a blazin’ when they are plum mad-”  Johnny couldn’t take it anymore, and just laughed, whole hardheartedly, at the old man’s attempts to make him do just that.  The ladies present also laughed. Big Jake was off the wall at times, but this lighter side of the man was something rarely seen and well appreciated.  It delighted Big Jake to see his grandson was alright. Worry had seeped into the old man’s heart, when he heard about the happenings during his illness. He had also spoken to Dakota and filtered out the shame and guilt Dakota unnecessarily carried. They had some long talks in the last few nights, with Dakota wishing that the ladies had never entered their lives. The quest for the Golden Rose was already proving to be a perilous journey, and the chance for division amongst all those involved was too great. Warnings abound, Dakota had said of his lively dreams.  “That’s what makes the quest such a challenge,” Big Jake had told him. “A test of true strength and courage was the way to look at this thing.”  Would they all be strong enough, and dig deep enough within themselves, to stay true? OR would they succumb to the way of the world: greed, prejudiced, envy, jealousy? Only time would give up that secret, and the Great Spirit would only reveal that time when he pleased.  Dakota still had his doubts, but he was a West, and would not betray his family in any way. For now, the feelings of guilt and shame were squashed, and Dakota busied himself instead on making sure his family was taken care of.  Back to the present, Johnny let the last bit of laughter hang in the air, broken only by himself trying to capture deep breaths.  “Trying to kill me Pops, since I, nor the bear, didn’t do a good job of it on our own?” Johnny finally asked.   Big Jake finally grinned. “Nah. Just making sure you are really alive,” he told the younger West. “If it hurts, your alive.”  Johnny just shook his head. The old man was in a very rare, unusually good move. He couldn’t help wonder what brought it on. Wasn’t the man hovering near death when he saw him a few short days ago?  “ Just goes to prove, you can’t keep a good man down,” Johnny thought.   Are you hungry, Mr. West?” asked Madame K as the burly bar keep brought in a tray of food.  “I am, thank you, M’am,” Johnny replied, eying the tray. There was a light course of grits, scrambled eggs, one strip of bacon, one light, fluffy pancake, and a cup of coffee to round out the fare.  Everyone but Big Jake then exited the room, in order to give Johnny some privacy as he ate. Big Jake, however, watched his grandson eat in silence. There were a few things he wished to discuss with the boy. Dakota, for one. Johnny had to know how he felt. The whole incident, for two. The boys deserved to know why he suspected it happened. And the lady, Madame K, the things they had discussed. Finally, something more difficult for the elder man, his feelings for the Indian woman. How his grandson felt about it was important to him. It wasn’t something that would commence right away, either. There was a lot the two had to get to know about each other, and who knew if Moon felt the same way about him?  Yes, there was a lot to be discussed, and the man waited patiently while the other to finish filling his belly so the conversation could begin.  Johnny watched the emotions play on the old man’s face once his guard was dropped as the ladies exited and left them alone. There were many things on his own mind to be discussed as well. What they had found in the mine, what he saw when he found Summer. Johnny also wanted to know how deep they were going to get involved in this quest that was started, and how he suspected they were going to be in it for the long haul.  Yes. Many questions that needed answering on all sides. 
 
 
 The meal finished, Johnny pushed away his plate and focused on the old man.   “Good to see you up and about,” Johnny told him.  “Could say the same for you, young man,” Big Jake said gruffly.  Johnny smirked.  “We both toyed with death this week, huh?” Johnny continued. “Just goes to show, you can’t keep a good West down.”  “It does indeed,” agreed Big Jake. “However, the facts remain.” Leaning forward, Johnny dropped his voice. “Oh? What facts would those be?”  “No matter how hard we try in this world, if it is not our time, we won’t succeed.” Big Jake looked serious a moment, then chuckled.  “The real fact, is that we got damn lucky, my boy. It was not easy to see you in that position, and when I heard about the fire,” The old man’s face suddenly fell to a deep frown. “ I was...afraid.”  Johnny leaned forward more, and wrapped bandaged arms around his grandfather.  “Takes a lot more than a few flames to take me out,” he mumbled.  “Just like it takes more than a fever and a dull knife of a coward to take you out.”  The old man slily chuckled again, pulled back a little from his grandson to look him in the eye.  “True.” His face then took a serious tone. “We have a lot of things to discuss, Johnny,” Big Jake said.  Johnny nodded. “Agreed. The first question I have is, what were these guys after and why? I am sure the Golden Rose is involved. Maybe the clues we had? But, wouldn’t it be easier to follow us to the clues?”  Big Jake shook his head. “There is no one answer, I am sure,” he began. “Maybe they thought the Rose was in the mine?”  “I have thought about that,” admitted Johnny. “But why kidnap Summer?”  “Thats right, you weren’t present for that conversation,” Big Jake replied. “When you and Dakota went out looking for supplies and buying the mine, I spoke in length with Moon. The reason is that Summer has been considered part of the prophecy for many years. Remember the black dye in her hair?”  Johnny nodded.  “That was all the effort to protect her,” Big Jake revealed.  Johnny nodded again, taking all the information in to process. Somehow, he knew that what Big Jake said was correct, and it went beyond the conversation with Moon or that Big Jake said so. It was something he felt, and couldn’t’ explain.  “We figured out all the clues though,” Johnny said after a few moments. “Well, at least these clues from Grandmothers’ chest at home. The Mountains, the direction,, led to our home. The West home...”  “Straight as the crow flies,” Big Jake added, nodding in understanding. “But what about the circle with the four arrows you found? Was there an answer to them?”  Johnny had almost forgotten about the symbol he found in the bark of the tree.  “It is a symbol of enlightenment, and a symbol of direction. Not East, South, West, North-those directions-but the directions of one’s self and the path they take in life. The symbol of the Owl is there, yes?”  Johnny nodded. “Death. Change. Like the coyote for the Navajo,” he replied.  “Exactly,” agreed Big Jake. “Only this one, was meant for birth.”  “Who was born?” Johnny asked, the news alighting upon him. “Rain? Grandmother?”  “It is a good possibility,” Big Jake told him. .  “But how?” Johnny asked. “If Madame K’s words are true, then she was from the East.”  “Johnny, do you remember your first few years?” Big Jake asked. Johnny shook his head. “A few fleeting things, but nothing specific. Not until the time Dakota was brought home_That I remember. But day by day, no, I do not, and only after a certain age do I remember everything clearly.”  “Exactly,” Big Jake said. “You don’t remember being a baby either.”  “Then Madame K lied?” Johnny inquired.  “No. I do believe her story, but I dispatched a detective to investigate, to make sure,” Big Jake replied. “Now with the war still on, it will be difficult. This is what I think. That Rain was born where you found those symbols. They traveled East. I do not know what happened to the female he traveled with. But it is not unlikely that he or Rain fell ill, and the woman from Georgia took him in, and they fell in love. This is also why he would take the girl with him, not just because she looked so much like Indian.”  “Because she was full Indian,” Johnny replied. “and his daughter.”  “I do believe that Madame K’s father is his son,” Big Jake replied.  “Furthermore, the woman counterpart, Rain’s mother, was also grandmother to Moon.”  “That would make them relations of sorts, wouldn’t it?” Johnny asked.  He nodded. “Yes. The mysterious Navajo would be Rain’s mother, and Moon and her sister, Rose-In-Sun’s, grandmother. Rose-In-Sun is Summers mother.”  Johnny shook his head to clear it, then fell silent, to make the connections in his mind.  “That makes us distant..cousins?” Johnny answered.  “Yes. Distant step cousins,” Big Jake corrected him. “Not a full blood line. So if there is any intention to get ..closer... in the future, your safe, my boy.”  Johnny nodded, but ignored the old man’s implication.  “Noted,” is all he would say to that. Turning his head, he studied the pattern in the wall paper for a moment, then changed the subject.  “Speaking of relations, is Dakota alright?” he asked.  “Dakota is well, physically,” Big Jake told him. “I am not so sure about the mental state, however. He feels guilty. Shamed, even.”  Johnny blinked and turned back to study the old man. “Why?”  “He thought about harming Summer, to end this silly quest,” Big Jake told him. “He was thinking in ways to protect the family and stop the onset of this curse of violence that seems to surround it.”  “Wow,” exclaimed Johnny, surprised. “I have to talk with him then. I don’t want Dakota to feel that way. I mean, I know he didn’t do anything to her. In fact, he saved her life.”  “But not without reservations,” Big Jake inputted. “He does not like the feeling that surrounds us. He thinks even greater danger is on the way.”  Johnny nodded. He had herd the stories from time to time in his travel and occasional quest himself to find the Rose. Some men had gone mad, some, never returned. Many were murdered, like his parents, for having any type of connection toward the artifact. A shame that something which resembles peace has such a bloody legacy.  “I will talk to him, Grandfather,” Johnny repeated, his voice lower than before. He did not want anything to divide he and his brother. But the pull Johnny felt toward Summer grew stronger, and the importance of finding this artifact, increasingly necessary. It was just one of those things he could not explain. Perhaps, sharing some of the same DNA had a partial place in it.  The information did change many things. Now knowing they were relatives, even though distant, made the escort a demand, more than a courtesy. Family worked that way, at least with those who chose to honor it.  “There is something else,” Big Jake said after a bit of silence. “The two that came in the room that I shot. I have seen one of them before.”  “What? Where?” Johnny asked, suddenly feeling like he knew the answer. “Annie?”  Big Jake shook his head. “The one that ran out of here. It was the man she was with. I know it was, when he said, ’Long time no see, Jake.”  Johnny burned with anger. His inside felt as though he had been hit in the gut. The same ones who betrayed him tried to kill his grandfather, were possibly involved in killing his parents, and now, attempted to take his grandfather’s life. Plus, what he nearly did to Summer made him wish he beat both death and the bear to him.  Big Jake watched the emotions play upon his grandson’s face.  “Its alright my boy. Justice was served to both of them in the way the Great Spirit saw fit.”  Johnny believed in the Great Spirit, in both the Indian and white man’s world. He actually believed them in one and the same, just different cultures, thus making it different rules. But Big Jake had it right, Johnny had to admit. The Great Spirit, no matter how you believed in Him, did dispense judgment and swift justice. The cowards died how they lived.  “Summer is recuperating nicely,” Big Jake’s voice broke through, scattering Johnny’s lost thoughts. “I was afraid for her at first. At least that dirtball did not get away with his obvious intent.”  Johnny looked at his grandfather as relief flooded his face. “He didn’t succeed in hurting her?”  “No, he did not succeed,” Big Jake confirmed. “Come close we are guessing. Her mind is a little fragile, though. Something like that has a powerful, negative effect sometimes on a female.”  Johnny nodded, understanding how that would have such an impact.  “She is very strong. It will take time, but I think she will be OK,” Johnny surmised.  “Good.” Big Jake was satisfied.  “Is there anything else?” Johnny asked.  “Yes, the mine,” Big Jake replied. “How did it look?”  “Until it caved in, it was looking pretty good,” Johnny told the older man. “We produced a nice cartful, just before the cave in. And the most interesting part, is after a few feet, the mine was actually stable. We walked to the back of it, and got out in a cleverly hidden exit.”  Big Jake’s jaw squared as he thought. “Like a fox hole, huh?”  “Exactly,” said Johnny. “It was not only named the Foxhole Mine, there was actually a picture, shaped by gold and gems, in the picture of a fox, across from the entrance. I saw it when the moon shone in through the hole, and made it sparkle.”  “Interesting. Very interesting,” exclaimed Big Jake.  “That’s the odd part, too,” Johnny said, sitting up a little taller. “The mine was obviously going to produce. That, and the way these folks left, in an all fired hurry, doesn’t make any sense at all. The man was nervous through the deal, and there was no leaving fast enough for his wife.”  “I thought that too,” agreed Big Jake. “I believe I found the answer. Remember the man we ran into the moment we came to town?”  Johnny nodded. “Yes, your friend. What was his name? Arnold?”  Big Jake nodded. “T hats him. Come to find out, he was doing a little more then attempting the campaign for so called Mayor. He was intimidating miners wives by threatening their husbands to sell. Only problem with the Foxhole Mine was that the previous owner sold it to you.”  Johnny shook his head.  “How did you figure that out?” He asked the elder West.  “Arnold talks when he is drunk. One of Madame K’s girls found out the information as he was visiting her.”  “Ah, I see,” said Johnny. “Do we need to contact the original owners and offer back the mine?”  After all, what was right, was right, and these people were forced. Something that did not set well with the West family.  Big Jake shook his head. “No,” He answered. “I also had a hired hand on that stage coach to investigate. The man didn’t want any part of the mine. His wife really did want to go back home to Boston of his and he sold it to you, fair and square. I was told my agent slipped half of the money back in the mans hat when they got out at a nearby town to stretch.”  He leaned forward. “I don’t think your mine caved in, son. I think it was forced.”  Johnny nodded. “Dakota thought that too, because the entire mine hadn’t collapsed. It seemed more like a blast, since it was in a concentrated area. But who?”  “Have you had a look at the dead man?” Big Jake asked.  Johnny shook his head and started getting up out of the bed.  Big Jake maneuvered his hand to indicate for Johnny to sit back down.  “No need to do it now,” He told Johnny. “The corners office isn’t open till tomorrow. I have a feeling you might recognize him. He was bragging in the bar about a deed he had done, and how his afternoon started out with a huge bang of dynamite.”  Johnny’s fist curled and smacked the pillow.  “There were three men with us at the mine,” Johnny told Big Jake. “Two of them perished. The other we never found, and assumed he was crushed by the falling rocks.”  Big Jake pressed his lips together in thoughts. “I’m thinking he made his way right out the entrance, tossing in a few sticks of dynamite behind him.”  “Spose it makes sense,” Johnny said dryly.  “Summer, we think, went out to the mine to alert you of the happenings here. Either that, or she was following Josiah. They had to have crossed paths, with him capturing her.”  “All of this explains a lot,” said Johnny, shaking his head in disbelief. “Crazy. Just crazy.”  “Yes, but we survived. All of us,” Big Jake said. “ Now it is time to move on from here, and go forward.”  “I am guessing our plan is to continue toward California?” Johnny asked.  “Yes,” Big Jake confirmed. “California, and beyond. Moon has decided to go after the Golden Rose, once and for all. She believes that the time has come, for this is the furthest that we know of anyone has gotten. She believes it is time for the whereabouts to be revealed.”  Johnny sat back on his pillow, mulling over the possibilities.  “Yes, I agree,” he said after a little bit of time thinking things through. “It is time that the hunt for the Golden Rose begins.”  He just silently wondered what would happen when and if they found it.  “I know, it is a lot of responsibility,” Big Jake said, standing and pacing the floor. “But it’s one I seem, we are destined to take. I will leave and let you get some rest, and time to think over everything we spoke about.” With that, Big Jake left the room, leaving Johnny to a stunned silence. “We will go down and identify the other man’s body in the morning.”  Johnny nodded as the older man walked out, and spent the afternoon mulling over the information and digesting its meaning. 
 
 
 Altogether, ten days passed from that conversation, giving the entire group more time to recover and continue the journey. Johnny, Dakota and Big Jake went and identified Gustus’s body as the man in the mine. They also went out to the mine and surveyed the damage. The men showed Big Jake the second entrance and the cleverly detailed picture on the rock wall opposite the opening. Big Jake had to admit that was very clever, and thought, after the pathway was cleared and when mining resumed, to occasionally make a secret way out every so long a direction, as to give miners fresh air, and a way out in case of an actual cave in.   Extraction of the rock and eventually, the other miner’s bodies began also in that ten day span. Backbreaking work, but the promise of money and a free drink or two at the saloon, happily provided by Madame K, soon had a twenty man team breaking up rocks and carting them away. The rest of the gold that was in the cart also would be divvied up amongst the men, but only after Dakota, Johnny and Big Jake took their share. There was a search around Josiah crude camp, where Madame K’s plate was discovered and returned. No other clues about the man or his plans were found there.  Summer and Dakota had started talking, urged on by Johnny and Moon. Dakota professed what was weighing upon his soul to her, and she too, forgave him, realizing that the situation was stressful and protecting the family was indeed a priority. They both came to the conclusion that killing Summer wouldn’t stop anyone’s search to possess the artifact. Men had sought it long before either of them were born, and it was highly likely, many would seek it well after they were gone. If found, there would be many to steal it. Dakota saw the mistake he almost made would have been a divider between he and those he cared for. Dakota then made a vow to protect the girl from harm this point on.  That point of protection was drove home when Big Jake revealed to the rest what he had discovered and believed as far as their relations went. Big Jake was making steps to verify all of this of course, but his words were enough for the bond of friendship they all begun to share to deepen instantly. Family was everything to all of them.  Another ten days passed, giving time for the small infection that began in Johnny’s back time to clear. He did not heed the doctors complete warnings to take things easy. Instead, Johnny joined the several miners as they worked to clear the mine, and the sweat and labor over the burnt skin did not make a good combination in the end. He was chided by his foolishness by both Moon and Madame K, making the ten days in bed excruciating. At least it was to Johnny. To Big Jake, Dakota, and Summer, it was a constant display of amusement.  Arrangements were then begun for the journey they would take from Vulture City to Los Angeles. A stop to the grand canyon was in order, at the great bend. Johnny had to see something, thoroughly search for more clues. Then, it would be onward to California. Los Angeles held secrets to Summer’s past, and also her future. It was something that she looked forward to every day. She knew so little about her family, her other heritage, her father.  Madame K had made the burly barkeep overseer of the mine, which was now nearly cleared of the debris and the dead miners properly buried. Big Jake, Madame K, Summer and Moon toured the mine, agreeing it showed a lot of promise. The fact that uncut diamonds and other gems glittered along side the gold was an encouraging site too.  “It’s like a rainbow,” Summer said breathlessly, running her hand along the rock walls. “So pretty.” She took a particularly long time studying the clear gems within the rock walls. Johnny watched her, thinking she made one pretty picture standing there in that mine. Dakota grinned, watching the both of them. What was obvious to him and the others, Summer and Johnny were oblivious to. Dakota was going to watch closely how this would develop. After the last fiasco, he felt it was his duty, as always, to look out for his brother’s best interests.  The day before they were intending to leave, Madame K approached Summer, asking her if she would honor her patrons with a few songs. She had enjoyed the talented woman’s voice, and many had come to her, asking when Summer would perform again. Summer, who still had stage fright, refused at first. The pleading continued and intensified when Big Jake and Moon joined the persuasion. She finally gave in and agreed, then went upstairs to select a gown and start dressing for the evening.  Summer was sitting on a small bench in-front of a mirror, brushing her sunset red hair to a shine when there was a small knock on the door.  “Come in,” she called out, thinking it was Moon or Madame K.  Instead, it was Johnny, carrying a box wrapped with a ribbon.  “I am looking forward to your singing tonight,” Johnny told her. “I ah...I wanted to give you something that might help you with your performance.” He put the box on the bed and tipped his hat while making a hasty exit.  “Thank you, Johnny. That was very kind,” she whispered, watching him exit. Her attention turned to the mysterious white box as she traced the outline of the taffeta ribbon. Pulling it loose, she set it aside and pulled open the top. Layers of thin tissue paper were peeled back, and an audible gasp escaped her lips.  Sitting upon the stunning material was a smaller hinged box, which she pulled open and had to suddenly sit. A delicate gold and diamond bracelet, the gold pieces shaped like roses, sparkled in the late afternoon light. They were a perfect match to the pendant around her neck. Setting the bracelet aside, Summer simply stared a few moments at the dress. Taking a shoulder each, she pulled it upwards, the carefully folded sheets of white satin unfolding like smooth melted butter over pancakes. The golden and iridescent roses made little rainbows all over the room when she held it up to the light of the window. A tucked waist, full skirt that swept almost to the floor was complimented by a tasteful, heart-shaped bust line and lacy, three quarter sleeves. Summer wasted no time putting on the dress, discovering that the neckline sat at the shoulders, making a dip between her breasts, so much in the south east southern bell style dresses. Tiny crystals hung from the edges of the sleeve to barely cover her elbow. They also hung in different lengths from her waist, and neckline, front and back. It showcased the pendant nicely. Discovering a long length of braided ribbon, bedecked with small diamond and gold stars, she wove it through a simple up-sweep twist of her hair. It was a small tribute to her Indian name, Star-That-Shines.  Her boots made a soft click as she stood once more and glanced to the vision in the mirror. The exposure to the sun had gently tanned her skin, giving an even more gold like appearance to Summer’s complexion. The reflection in the mirror showed a woman that never looked like she ever lived in an Indian camp all her life. Instead, she looked a refined lady of the white man’s world.  Taking a deep breath, she turned and headed for the door.  The promise of Summer making an encore experience brought nearly the whole town to flood the saloon. People of some stature and class sat next to the dirty, sweaty miners in effort to gain a good seat. The piano was moved to the middle of the room, atop a small, hastily built raised stage, so everyone would get a good view. Everyone was in the middle of excited chatter. Big Jake Dakota, Moon, and Johnny were sitting at a reserved table in the center. Everyone was engaged into an excited chatter. It is what made Summer’s quiet appearance at the top of the steps, glancing over the crowd, so easy to miss at first.  A fine lady with a large, red feathered hat was getting a little impatient, and continued to glance from time to time up to the top of those steps. The goddess like vision Summer made caused the lady to gasp audibly and cry out, “OH MY!” causing the entire crowd to cease talking and look as if suddenly made of one in the same direction.  Johnny taking a sip of his drink when he too, gazed upward. He thought Summer was beautiful from the moment he laid eyes upon her, even when she was wearing the black dye in her hair. But what he saw that night was akin to one of Heaven’s own angels.  “You can do this,” she thought to herself. For a moment, for affect, she stood perfectly still a few moments longer. Finally, making every move down the steps deliberately slow, Summer lifted her voice in a sweet, light chorus of ‘laa laa laa laa’ and other melodic humming. Finally she came toward the bottom step, and every man in the room rose and bowed, as if mechanically connected to each other. The ladies also rose and curtsied, as if Summer was visiting royalty. Likewise, Summer bowed her head in appreciation toward them all, then headed for the stage where the piano man waited.  “Good evening, everyone,” she said in the softest voice she could muster, before nodding to the piano man and starting in with the first song. The dying light of the sun shone through the window on the right intermittently as it filtered through the throng of people who couldn’t make their way inside, illuminating the iridescent crystals and diamonds on Summers’ outfit, causing her to sparkle like the nights sky on the stage.  “Wow.” Johnny whispered. He was just mesmerized. Johnny knew sh would be a sight to behold in that dress, but even he wasn’t ready for the princess that now sang on the stage.  Summer ended up entertaining them for over an hour, even daring to break into a little energetic ditty she had picked up from the rowdy miners since her stay over the saloon.  Thunderous applause and many encores later, an exhausted Summer took her seat at the reserved table and consumed a glass full of water in moments. She was flushed, causing the deep green of her eyes to pop out and deepen even more. There was excitement in those pretty eyes. Something about the stage simply agreed with her, despite the stage fright she felt before going on stage. But the smile upon her face told the tale of how she could easily ward it off to give an unforgettable performance.  “We did not know you could sing so angelically,” said Dakota. “Even the spirits are in a tranquil calm from the honey of your voice.”  “Yes, what he said,” Johnny stammered, unable to come up with anything more clever. This elicited a grin from Dakota, but to his credit, did not tease this time around. The vibrant mood was alive in the saloon tonight, and everyone adhered to a degree of civility for the rest of the evening. Many of the gentry stayed most the night too, enjoying a fine wine and playing a ‘gentleman’s version’ of cards alongside the gap toothed, beer drinking miners. Madame K enjoyed a second night of record profits. Even Summer succumbed to a glass of wine or two. It was such a successful, easy going night, that no one thought anything could go wrong. 
 
 
 But, that something was lurking outside the town, its singed fur and injured, sick mind brought it ever closer to seeking revenge and unfinished business. The great bear stood on it’s hind legs at the edge of the town, sniffing the air. Usually, most bears would run away when there was a crowd. Not this one. Instead, the noise and sounds drew the animal to it. A great growl grew from inside and emitted forth, instantly scattering those who were outside the establishment. The bear’s maw snapped absently, snapping any flesh that unfortunately crossed its path while people panicked.  Inside, the entire table froze, and Summer turned instantly white. She locked eyes with Johnny, and then Dakota. Both knew that unmistakable sound. Everyone sprung to their feet, as the window shattered and the bear made his next appearance. Everyone inside scrambled for the door, trampling two patrons in the process.  The bear didn’t care about those bottle necking at the exit. It had his eyes on two of the people in the center of the room.  Dakota studied the bear. “Look at it’s eyes. It has the madness that overtakes animals.”  He was, of course, talking about rabies.  The deranged bear bellowed again, and made its final lunge across the room.  Everyone moved all at once. Moon and Madame K flew up the staircase. Big Jake backpedaled to the fireplace. Johnny grabbed a hold of Summer’s arm and steered her out of the path of the bear. Dakota stood at the ready, moving only when the bear came close, letting momentum and the animal’s weight cause it to crash into the far wall.  Summer was to frightened to scream. She and Johnny moved as one towards the door. People were still filing out of the doorway, jumping out the now broken window. Glass lay everywhere. With one motion Johnny scooped her up, setting her through the open space, yelling, “HIDE”, and back in he went. No one needed to tell her twice, and she was off down the street in a shot, lifting up her skirt and taking refuge into the general store at the invitation of the shop keep.  Summer, Moon, and Madame K out of the way, the men now advanced on the bear. Big Jake had grabbed hold of two swords on display over the fireplace, tossing one to Dakota, another to Johnny. Big Jake himself took a long, sharp fire poker and started yelling to confuse the deranged bear.  “Come on!” He yelled, as the bear turned from the wall it crashed into and eyed the man. “I’m not afraid of you! Lets go!”  It was all an effort to distract from the two advancing younger men. The bear took the bait, bellowing once more, then charged towards the man. Big Jake had propped up his poker stick between two chairs, making it like a rigid spear. Jumping out of the way with a tuck and roll, the bear crashed into the wall, the spear penetrating deep. Now blinded by the pain, the bear grew even more engaged. It’s great paws swept out in effort to swat the man who had caused it, but Big Jake was just out of reach. A crunch of glass had the bear whirling to the right, and a well placed swipe sent Johnny sprawling to the floor. Now having a new focus, the great animal turned and advanced on Johnny’s sprawled form. Towering over him, the bear bellowed again and stood on it’s hind legs, then lunged forward for the kill.  Dakota gave an eerie war cry, and rolled forward, putting himself between Johnny and the bear as it crashed to the floor.  Everything and everyone went silent.  “No!” cried Big Jake, as he ran across the floor. Both boys were pinned under the huge animal, and he clearly saw the bear open it’s jaws to bite. He knew what the animal madness would do to a human. He had seen it before.  Dropping to his knees, Big Jake attempted to push the still bear off the two of them.  The bear did not move. Nothing moved for a heart stopping moment. Blood leaked from a small, open wound on the bear’s back.  Dakota had the sword in his hands when the bear fell, and the weight of the animal pushed the sword straight through, stilling the great beating heart and taking its last breath as a punctured lung deflated and mighty ribs cracked. Still, it was a dead weight on top of the two men now, and slowly crushing them. Men, now confident since the big bear was dead, came to help, rolling the bear off the two underneath. Both gasped, taking in gulps of fresh air for several minutes. Others dragged out the carcass of the bear, and still more straightened the saloon and cleaned up the damage. Both men were ordered to strip and scrub down, in case the sickness visited upon the bear should find it’s way to their own system.  After all was said and done, both Johnny and Dakota set out to find Summer.  She was holed up in the store room of the general store, being consoled by the shop keeps wife. Everyone jumped as the little bell rung overhead, and both Johnny and Dakota walked through. A patron had told them they saw Summer duck inside there. She was very relieved to see the men and vigorously hugged them both several times.  “Come on, Summer,” Johnny said, offering up his arm. “Let us go. After all the excitement this evening, I am sure you will want to rest.”  He was right. After a light meal, and a good sponging down, Summer was asleep when her head hit the pillow. They had a long journey to undertake, and resting in a bed is something they would not do for the next couple of weeks. In some ways, Vulture City did have its unusual charm, but she was ready to leave this place and get to Los Angeles. A pit stop was going to be made, however, at the bend in the Grand Canyon. Something Johnny said was necessary.  Goodbyes were never Madame K’s strong point, and she dabbed at her eyes as her new found kin, no matter how distant in relations, made ready to leave the next afternoon. Keeping up with their schedule of travel by night, sleeping by day while in the desert, the  setting sun made long shadows on the ground as they stood to give the woman a hug.  “We will see each other again,” Summer assured her, knowing in her heart it was true. After all, she had some of her people out helping in the mine, which was producing nicely. Product was being shared around some of the town, but mostly brought to Big Jake’s home and the bank he did his business in near Prescott. A certain percentage also went to Madame K’s needs. Should she decide to leave the desert town, she was provided for and given directions how to get to the Golden Rose Ranch.  Moon also broke her people’s customs and gave Madame K a hug. It was odd to see the woman do so with a white woman, but Summer smiled, thinking it was fitting in this new world they were submerged in.  Dakota was next in line, and drew the woman into her arms. He had offered to stay behind a few days and help with the reconstruction. But the new window was already being put back in, and there wasn’t much damage, surprisingly, done on the inside. Two people were trampled and a third died from his injuries and the animal madness. The casualty list was light indeed, however, considering the seven hundred plus pound bear’s rage. At least the danger, for now, was over.  Johnny was next to give an embrace. “Thank you, M’Lady, for everything.”  “No,” Madame K said tearfully. “Thank you. My life is enriched, and completely changed.” She reached out and hugged Johnny once more. “She’s a lucky girl,” Madame K whispered. Johnny just looked at her with the oblivious ‘what are you talking about’ look.  Madame K laughed, and turned her attention to Big Jake, who tipped his at and bowed.  “It has been a pleasure having you here,” she told him. “I wish you all luck on your quest.”  “Thank you. I wish you all the best here. We will be back this way soon,” he promised, although he really didn’t know how soon that would really be. As Big Jake always did, there were ‘assurances’ in place, people watching, waiting in the wings and would find ways to report to him regularly what was going on here when he was away.  New horses were bought and delivered to Johnny and Dakota, as their horses met a horrid fate the day of the blast. Johnny had really missed Firewind. But the black stallion with the white diamond on its forehead and around it’s hoofs as well as sprinkled through the tail gave him plenty to look forward too. Dakota had picked a beautiful tan and white horse, similar to his favorite, Injun, who had also perished. This one had more spirit, and Dakota quickly took that as the new horses name. Johnny had yet to give a name to his horse, choosing to ‘break him in’, so to speak, and get to know the horses’ personality before bestowing a name.  With everyone now mounted and ready, the group made their way down the main street and back into the desert. Townsfolk stopped to watch the mini parade, and many gave a standing ovation to the strangers who had brought some civility to Vulture City that temporarily tamed the wild town.  Long after Vulture City had disappeared from view, traveling again by the moonlit night, the group made there way now towards the fabled Grand Canyon. There, nestled on the bend of the great river, would be the final clue to one part of this multi phased, complex puzzle.  First, they would have to make it through the several days ride.  The trip was largely uneventful, except for a heart pounding encounter with a huge rattlesnake and the almost fatal stab of a sneaky scorpion. Dakota had caught and killed the giant snake, and the women lost their appetite when he claimed it good eating, and Johnny chopped the scorpion in half with the great knife they used for cutting vegetables. No one used it until it had a proper wash with heated water and soap, fearing any poison on the blade might contaminate anything that was cut and digested. The stars overhead were simply incredible, and long streaks across the night sky of the meteor shower gave entertainment to the otherwise dull march across the coarse sand.  Now, as they emerged from their camp, a wondrous sight stood before them. The enormous span of the Grand Canyon lay before them, the gray ribbon of the Colorado River far below.  “It’s breath taking,” Summer stated, taking in the beauty along with the rising of the sun. The array of colors splayed across the canyon walls and the sky, some she never seen before, even after being in town,were simply amazing. The whole scene was inspiring to even the least of poets. Somewhere, down in this massive carving of the Great Spirit, lay a tiny clue that would put to light the legend and legacy of the Golden Rose.  “How do we get down there?” Summer asked.  Johnny pointed towards the west. “There is a trail that I took the last time I was here. It will lead us to the great bend, where the river wounds around the land like a bow. It is not so hard to cross, providing the rains hold.”  Summer nodded. “Can we take horses? Or is it more of a hike on foot?”  “A hike on foot,” he told her. “We will all go but for Big Jake. He is keeping camp up here, with Moon. Someone has to feed the horses,” Johnny told her. “It is a three day hike down and over, and three days back. Do not worry,” Johnny reassured her. “Dakota and I will keep you safe.”  Summer nodded. “When did you want to start?”  “After breakfast will be fine, if your ready,” Johnny replied.  Summer nodded. “No problem. I will be ready.”  Johnny nodded and went about getting his backpack set up for the hike. Summer went over to begin preparations for a hearty breakfast of coffee, eggs, grits and lard biscuits. The meal was consumed quickly, and within the hour the three set upon their way to hike to the Canyon’s bottom.  The trail itself took a quarter of the day to get to, and their descent was easy enough for the rest of the day. A narrow path wound its way through jagged rocks and various boulders of all sizes.  By sunset, a small, flat plateau served as a setup for camp, and the three weary travelers settled around the campfire for warmth and food. Conversation was little, and centered around the next leg of the journey, which would bring them to the bottom of the canyon where they would follow the river and camp downstream.  “What do you think we will find?” asked Dakota.  “What is it that you are missing?” echoed Summer.  Johnny just shrugged. “We will find out when we get there,” was his only reply. 
 
 
 Dawn broke, but since they were situated on the side of the canyon   with the sun behind them, daylight took much longer to reach the camp. It was interesting to watch the play of light bouncing off the rock, and the colors and shadows that changed through the day. The canyon’s bottom was just as interesting as the far off cliffs, where Summer thought she could make out Moon’s physique on the edge. The great river also seemed to change color through the day, from a deep grey to a light green and then a hazy blue. It’s white bubbles around the rapids were a site to behold, and Summer couldn’t resist touching the waters surface, feeling the energetic hum of this steadily flowing river. Sometimes the great ribbon of water would flow heavy, other times, light, and still further down, creating odd shaped islands in the center.  “In all my days, I have never seen such a site of creation,” Summer stated breathlessly. “The Great Spirit is one amazing artist and carver of stone.”  “He is indeed,” Agreed Dakota. A sweep of his hand towards the river. “The water is also great. It reflects the Great Spirit’s inner being, in every twist and turn, his personality.”  Johnny was listening to the two and silently agreeing, as he was leading the others down the dusty path. A glance upward told him the sun was high overhead. Noon. Just a little further and he would have them all stop for an hours worth of rest and a light lunch. The clues ran over and over in his mind, and the closer he got, the more he wanted to be there and relieve the nagging feeling that he missed something on his last visit. The trip could take a little less if he let the horses gallop, but, as Dakota and Summer were not familiar with the canyon like he was, Johnny decided it was not worth the risk of any of them getting hurt.  As the long shadows started showing themselves in strange formations amongst the intricate rock carvings, the group finally made camp along a wide bend. Fishing was plentiful, and they all enjoyed the easy catch over a roaring fire. The temperature wasn’t too uncomfortable, and the canopy above was just amazing. The two men rolled out their sleeping bags on one side of the fire, Summer, respectively, on the other. They spent most of the night talking about the crazy trek they have been on thus far, and how far they had come individually in such a short time.  “I never thought, in all my years, I would be doing the things that happened in Vulture City,” said Summer as she studied the night sky patterns. “Singing in front of strangers. I only performed for my family, my friends.” Her voice trailed slightly, as the thought of them and not knowing their fate brought a sense of profound sadness.   Johnny’s voice was gentle and compassionate.  “I know you miss them,” he began quietly. “It is hard not knowing what happened, the way you had to leave was horrible. But, I can tell you, keep hope in your heart that at least some of them, if not all, survived somehow.”  He knew it was a hard pill to swallow, but in his travels, he had seen what could happen with a raid on an Indian village, and also what an Indian raid on a settlement could do. Still, he had seen times when one would think all was lost, to discover just the opposite, and the Great Spirit they believe in, pull a miracle.  Dakota chimed in on the conversation, his voice equally full of compassion.  “We all have a time we are upon this earth,” he said, watching Summer dash a tear away from her eyes. “Yet, there are those moments, when our time seems cut too short. Nature, compensates us for this loss.”   Both Summer and Johnny looked at Dakota in surprise. “How so?”They both asked.  “He brings us family we do not expect, in the form of friends,” Dakota replied, smiling at them both. “While they do not fill the void for those we lost, they do mend the rip of emotions we feel with their devotion, their loyalty, and their love.”  Summer blinked, stunned at Dakota’s words. This, from the man who a short time ago, confessed to thoughts of doing her harm. He did apologize before they left Vulture City, but this statement and the uncustomary smile on his face told her that his words rang true.  “Thank you, Dakota,” Summer said, flashing a smile back at him.  “No. Thank you,” He said. “You have reminded me of many things. How important family is, for one. Kindness of strangers for two. Hope, for three, and faith in ones self and their surroundings.”  Summer got up, and in a rare display of emotion, gave Dakota a heartfelt hug. She then made her way back to her sleeping roll.  Johnny too, was amazed at Dakota’s words.  “Yes, thank you, my brother,” He said, echoing Summer’s sentiment. Instead of a hug, however, the two men shared a handshake.  Summer bid them both good night and slid into her sleeping bag, though she lay wide awake and giddy with excitement. It was only a two hour trip to the great bend, but they had to stop and camp here for the night. It just wasn’t safe to cross the river under the stars. She wondered what they would find once they got there. Johnny had been this far, and she wondered what brought him to such an isolated spot in the first place. But the question flew out of her head, when several streaks of light zipped across the sky.  “Shooting stars,” whispered Johnny from his side of the fire. “Legend says if you make a wish on them, they will come true.”  “There are many legends about the stars that streak across the sky,” she replied.  “Is that where you got your name? Your Indian name?” Johnny asked.   Even though he couldn’t see her, Summer shook her head.  “No,” she whispered. “I was told, that when I was born, there was a star that shone brightly in the morning sky,” She explained. “It was like a bright, blue-white diamond amongst the purple dawn and the red of the rising sun. Usually, stars disappear when the sun peeks over the mountains and chases off the dark night sky. This star stayed the whole day and on into the night. During that night, many streaks-shooting stars, I mean, appeared across the sky, as if in celebration. The star was gone the next morning.”  “Interesting,” stated Johnny. “Very Interesting. Such a legacy to a grand name.”  “Well, I am sure there is a legacy to yours,” Summer told him.   “The name Johnny came from my mother’s father,” he said quietly. “I never met the man. He is still alive, I think. My mother’s family shunned her when she came out West. They live in Boston and Springfield, Massachusetts.”  “So, there is a whole other side of you that you do not know, just like me,” Summer said in surprise.   Now it was Johnny’s time to nod in the darkness.  “There’s a few things about me I do not know,” he admitted. “I think that is the truth with almost anyone on some levels.”  “I agree.” Summer said.  “We better get some sleep,” Johnny told her. “Dakota has beaten us to it, I think.”  The light snoring from Dakota’s spot confirmed Johnny’s words as true.  “Yes,” Summer agreed again. “We have a full day tomorrow.” Summer turned over in her sleeping bag. “Goodnight, Johnny West.”  “Goodnight, Star-That-Shines,” Johnny whispered. “With that, he too rolled over and fell fast asleep.  Dakota had listened to the conversation. There were many things that he too, did not know about himself. Maybe one day, on this epic quest, he would find some answers too.”  It was a long while before he slept, as questions swirled in his mind. It was the same as it was every night, since the time he was discovered and brought as a child to the ranch.  Two hours after they ate and broke camp, the bend suddenly came into view. A small island sat square in the center of a perfectly sculpted ribbon of water.  “It looks calm enough,” Dakota said scanning and assessing the situation.   “We need to leave the horses here,” Johnny stated as he dismounted. “It is too deep for them to cross.”  Dakota walked Spirit up and down along the shore, watching the way the water rippled and bubbled. A sudden ’YAH” rang out, and Spirit charged into the water.  “Dakota!” Johnny shouted. “It’s too deep! And the current is very strong!”   The horse quickly had disappeared, then so did Dakota. For a few tense moments, Johnny watched, frantic for his brother. He just about entered the water himself when Dakota’s head emerged, just a little off to the left of where he went in. the current was strong, but Spirit was stronger, and his elegant head popped into view Within moments, the great horse and his rider were staring triumphantly at the other two from the opposite side.  “You still have a lot to learn about horses, my brother,” Dakota yelled, almost laughing at the other two. Johnny had crossed rivers that way before, and he was not fond of it. Nor did he think Summer would be able to cross the river in such a way.   He was partially right. Summer had never tried to cross a river while riding a horse. She did know how t o swim in one, however. A trip to a hunting ground once in her youth had yielded a river much like this one. She was playing with the other children, when she played too close to the edge and was swept downstream by the strong current. It became a matter of sink or swim. The braves found her a mile away, swimming and playing in a shallow spot. Summer told them that she was not afraid, and knew the rest would come to find her.  After a few minutes of debate, Summer was atop Johnny’s horse, riding behind him and holding on for dear life. A short rope connected from Johnny’s saddle to Summer’s horse, and the pair began their trek through the river.  “Take a deep breath, and don’t let go,” Johnny told her as the water seeped ever upwards to their neck.   The water was cold, a welcome wetness to the heat and humidity of the day. The pull of the current had both horses going sideways for the few moments they were under water. Summer locked her hands around Johnny’s’ waist, but her eyes were open. What she could see through the sparkling ribbon dazzled her. Fish of all sizes, swam quickly away if they were near. A great turtle swam by, taking a second glance at the unusual occupants invading his habitat.  After what seemed like a lifetime, and just when her lungs burned for air, they emerged, and ended up next to Dakota on the other side. Summer’s horse was a little resistant during the unexpected swim, and he pranced a little around the new tiny island.  There was a rock formation in the center, and a few scraggly trees. Johnny and Dakota rung out the water from their drenched shirt and pants, but summer gave the wetness no heed. Instead, she began making her way to the outcropping of rock. Circling it, her eyebrows furrowed, she was looking for something.  Johnny was suddenly beside her, and his voice invaded her thoughts.  “I found the symbols in the trees over there,” he pointed to the other side of the tiny island. “Here.” he handed her the piece of cloth that held the symbol on it.  “Change. Death.” Summer whispered.   Dakota too , now circled the rock formation in the center. It was he that stepped closer, and gave a shout from the opposite side for the others to come and see.  “The symbol on the rock. The symbol of the owl, and the symbol of Yei,” he told them, pointing. 
 
 
 “Someone is buried here,” Summer said slowly. “My..my ancestor, I am guessing, since she was not with the man.”   “Rain’s real mother,” Johnny whispered.   For a moment, no one moved. Then, Johnny moved slowly, and started to pull back the rocks, surprised how quickly they gave way.  They revealed what all three already had known in their hearts. There, covered in bandages, lay the skeleton. By the rotting buckskin dress and the intricate design upon it, confirmed that whoever this person was, came from the Navajo tribe.  “Hello, ancestor,” breathed Summer, totally awed.   Dakota had climbed closer, examining the makeshift tomb. The hole was just big enough for the body to be placed in, and, until they took it down, the rock wall was enough to keep it hidden from the direct sun and from direct vision. Simple and clever, really. He was about to back away when something in the corner caught his eye. Reaching in a hand, he took the stone and brought it to light, squinting to make out the delicate etching.  “The symbol, was a series of three wavy lines.  “Rain,” Dakota said, tracing the symbol with his finger. “This is the symbol of rain.”  He leaned forward once more to investigate. It was then he noticed that the skeleton’s fist was closed, with a piece of cloth protruding from it.  “Whatcha got there, great-grandmother,” Johnny whispered, taking the cloth and pulling it free.  The symbols on the paper was that of a man, with what looked like a maze.  “A man in a maze,” Dakota said, looking over their shoulder. “It symbolizes reflection on ones life, and the path of life, into the spirit world.”  “Directions to the happy hunting grounds,” Summer said quietly.  “It’s more than that. Perhaps, it means she finished their quest?”  Johnny asked suddenly. “Maybe...maybe they were on their way home, instead of starting out.”  Summer blinked. “Then what about Rain? I thought she was born here?”  “She may have been,” Dakota injected the thought. “This lady may have been dying, and returned to the place where her life changed direction.”  “But, who put her in the rocks?” Summer asked, her mind whirling.  “The old man, and Rain herself, I think,” Johnny surmised. “It is possible, they were here after they fled Georgia. Somehow, there is something more to Madame K’s story. She never mentions this woman being present in any of her information.”  “But it doesn’t make any sense,” Dakota said, running a hand through his now drying hair. “If they came back from Georgia, this canyon is well out of the path they would take.”  Johnny had been investigating the makeshift grave, and pulled out another swatch of cloth, with more symbols upon it.  This one bore an eight pointed star in the center of a circle.  “The symbol of hope,” Summer told the men.   Another symbol on the cloth, looked like waves.  “Water. A lake? The Ocean?” Dakota questioned.  The third symbol, looked like very, very tall trees, colored red.  “These are in California,” Johnny told them both. “Giant redwoods as tall as the eye can see. They block out the light, even at noon with their mighty branches.”  Summer peered closer. “These are mountains. Mountains near the water. And that is the symbol of the sun,” she added, pointing to a round circle high in the sky.  “But where?” Johnny asked. “California has miles of coastline.”  “There is a picture, of a figure with wings,” Dakota said, further examining the grave. “It is odd. I do not recognize it.”  He showed it to Johnny. “An angel,” Johnny told the other two, confused. “Why would an Angel be amongst Indian symbols?”  “Do you think, the trail is backwards, instead of forewords?” Summer asked, as the idea began to dawn on her. “It is easier to leave a trail to tell where you have been, instead of where you are going. Especially when you do not truly know the way.”  Johnny followed her train of thought. “You mean, they went on this path, and then retraced their steps on the way back? After accomplishing their mission?”  “Exactly,” Summer continued. “There are two clues. Look how different they are, and this strange symbol,” she said, pointing to the angel. “It had to have been something they learned along the way about. “  “So they came back to each place they were originally at.” Dakota continued. “This means, one clue is where they are going, one, is where they have been.”   “The trick is to figure out which is which when we find them,” Summer finished. This quest was looking harder and harder to solve!  “Then we have to be careful,” Johnny said matter-of-factually. “Or we will end up circling back to where we where if we don’t.”  Summer gave a defeated sigh. “Why would they make this so tricky?” She asked.  “Well, that’s simple,” Johnny said, facing her. “The guardians were in charge of making sure the Rose was safe, right?” Summer nodded, and Johnny continued. “Then, they did it this way in order to throw those who seek it off. Only a true and simple heart will find the treasure, Rain would always say.”  Summer nodded. It all made sense, in fact. She looked at the symbol of the Angel again.  “Do you think, this means Los Angles?” she finally asked.  “Yes. I was just thinking the same,” echoed Johnny. “Los Angeles is Spanish, for ‘City of Angels’. It is near the ocean, and there is a mountain range nearby.”  “Then, we are on the right track,” Dakota said confidently.   “The legend is now solved,” Johnny said, looking back at the skeletal ancestor.   “Yes,” Dakota agreed. “And the quest for the Golden Rose begins.”  They spent the rest of the day rebuilding the rocks, and performing a simple ritual to honor the newly found ancestor.  That night, everyone slept sound, opting to spend it on the little island on the bend. The trip back would begin immediately after breakfast was finished and camp was struck. They searched for a more shallow spot to cross, to no avail.  The trio was awoken, however, well after midnight, by the unmistakable clap of thunder and the splatter of rain on their faces.  Johnny and Dakota knew danger was inanimate, judging from the drenching downpour they were in. Wind ripped through the canyon as they hastily struck camp.  Even though the island was small, capturing the horses in the pitch black and blinding rain was a challenge. Several times one or all three ended up splashing their way into the river, and often at ankle or knee deep. The precious time it took cost them. The river was fast becoming a swollen, raging mass, eating up the precious sand they were standing on.  “If this keeps up, we are going to be swimming no matter what,” Johnny yelled over the wind. “We have to cross now or we will all die.”  Lighting flashed, and Johnny used its brilliance to lead the others to a spot where they would cross and definitely hit land. On two sides were land they could be safe on. On one side, a canyon wall that the waves now crashed against. The other side, a the wide mouth of the river itself.  Summer was upon Johnny’s horse once more, since her own stallion was bucking, wide eyed with fear as his hooves hit the water. Johnny tied the horse’s lead rope to his saddle, urging it to follow. Summer had her legs locked tight to Johnny’s’ saddle, and her hands in a death grip around his waist. Dakota at one moment, was by Johnny’s side. In another instant, he and Spirit were suddenly gone, plunging fearlessly into the water.  Johnny’s own horse followed suit without warning. The moment they were chest deep in the water, however, Johnny knew they were in deep trouble.  “Hang on, Summer!” he screamed, just before the great horse was dragged under by the current, throwing off it’s occupants.  Everyone, was swept down river.  As soon as they tumbled off, Summer let go of Johnny out of fear they would both drown. She thanked the Great Spirit for one thing-she was not wearing the heavy material that made up her dresses, but the lightweight pants, cotton shirt, and leather jacket made for riding. Fighting the water, she peeled off the jacket, and her head momentarily bobbed up the surface.  “Johnny! Dakota!” she screamed, but her ears were plagued only with the pounding sound of rain and the rush of the river.  Johnny kicked hard against the current, taking in deep breaths as his head emerged as well. There was nothing to be seen, save the jagged shadows of rocky walls through lighting flashes. The horse was no where to be found. Neither were his companions. He knew he had to swim crosswise and hope to gain shallow water where he could stand, or at least, a branch he could pull himself out with. Hands flailed at anything they could grab. Within a few minutes, luck was with him, and a knocked over tree by the wind provided what he sought. Every muscle strained as they worked overtime against the angry current. Finally, he crawled out of the water and mud onto the land, setting himself far away from the water as he could, in order to regain his breath.  Summer was not yet so lucky, and the constant dunking she endured was quickly wiping out her strength. She cried out in Navajo to the Great Spirit to spare her. She knew eventually everyone would perish, but she was not yet ready to join her ancestors. Of course, the time she would die was not up to her. Though she was plunged into darkness when she banged up against a rapid full of rocks. Barely conscious and fighting to stay awake and afloat, a strong arm entered in and pulled her to safety. It was then, when she was on dry land and under a shelter of rock outcropping to shield her from the rain, that she allowed the darkness to seep in.  Johnny too, had sought shelter against the canyon wall from the downpour. There was not much he could do, that he knew, until the rain let up and he was able to see.  “Dakota, Summer, I pray you are both safe,” He whispered to whatever deity was listening, before he too, succumbed to the world of slumber and darkness.  The barrage of rain continued until daylight, then slowed to a lazy drizzle. Johnny opened his eyes and sat up, immediately surveying the scene. It was one hell of a storm that had blown through the canyon walls. The once peaceful river was now a white water rage, and limbs, built up sand piles, and loose rocks littered the landscape before him.  Johnny ignored the gnawing of his stomach and set out once more to find his companions. He fervently prayed that they would be found, by some miracle, alive.  Summer also woke at daybreak, to find herself wrapped in a blanket and laying by a warm fire.  “Am I dead?” she asked the air absently.  “No.” a soft, womanly voice startled her with the answer.  “You are very much alive.”  Summer blinked, attempting to sit up, and lying immediately back down as the world began to spin.  “Who..who are you?” She managed to squeak out.  “Who I am is not important,” replied the old woman. “Just that I am here, and keeping you warm until help arrives.”  Summer stared. “How did you know that I was with someone?”  The lady kept her calm demeanor. “No woman would be fool enough to ride here without an escort,” was the answer.  “Enough questions. You must drink, to chase off the chill.” The lady turned from the fire, carrying a bowl of a warm, fragrant liquid.  “What is it?” Summer asked suspiciously. But the woman’s stoic features prevailed, and Summer drank the liquid without another word. It wasn’t at all displeasing, but a little on the strong side. Summer stood and studied the woman’s’ chiseled features. She was definitely Indian, her grey hair setting off the classic high cheek bones and almond shaped, dark eyes. Somehow, she looked vaugley familiar.  “Thank you for your kindness,” Summer said softly after she laid her head back down on the soft material placed under her head.  “Enough words for now,” the old woman chided politely. “You must rest.” 
 
 
 Johnny had traveled, shouting for hours along the rivers side, to no avail. They had to be around somewhere. Even if it..would end up being their corpse. It couldn’t end like this. Could it? Johnny knew well the answer to that one. There were many possibilities. He wanted to make sure he knew what happened to them. They were family, and it was his duty to find out.   It was Summer’s horse that he came across first. The bloated body was trapped against a fallen array of large rocks, to large to fit through the opening. The lead rope, ironically, taunted him just past the edge of the shore. Reaching in, he grabbed it and pulled. It was hard work, but the horse came close enough in the shallows for Johnny to search through the saddlebags. Remarkably, the food and other rations were still intact, and Johnny sat to rest, filling his empty belly with food. He felt bad for the horse, it had panicked greatly before they all plunged into the river. Maybe, it knew it would not survive.  Johnny stood, glancing up toward the now noonday sun that beat down upon him. Not a trace of a cloud in the sky. Only the swollen river gave witness to the fact the storm happened at all.  Continuing down river for a few more hours, Johnny ran into some luck. His own horse was actually alive! His reigns were caught upon the sparse bushes, just enough for the tired animal not to be able to pull away. Johnny circled around the stallion, talking in a calm, soothing voice as he approached.. The stallion eyed him nervously, and even snapped at him once.  “Come on fella,” Johnny crooned. “Its me. Your rider.” Johnny came closer. “Come on, fella.” Johnny reached out, this time the horse nudging Johnny’s hand away with it’s nose.  “Are you sore at me?” Johnny asked, still moving closer. “I didn’t do it on purpose, you know. We had to cross.” Another swipe of the reigns proved futile.  “Shh I know,” Johnny said, pointing at the horse. “You are sore at me, because you do not yet have a name.”  Pressing his fingers to his lips, Johnny appeared to be in deep thought. The horse nodded his head in Johnny’s direction, as if though he was listening.  “Ghost,” Johnny said. “Ghost. Because if you didn’t drown in this,” his hand waved to indicate the raging rapids. “You surely were either lucky, or a ghost.”  The horse seemed to think it over, then finally, bowed his head, sticking his nose into Johnny’s outstretched palm. Johnny smiled.  “Alright, Ghost,” Johnny said, now taking hold of the reigns and moving to mount the horse. “We have some ground to cover. Lets find the others, boy.” With a pat on the great horse’s neck, they were off like a shot.  Summer became discouraged as the sunlight began to fade and there was no sign of Johnny or Dakota. Just the mysterious old woman who dried Summers clothes and kept her warm. The spinning of her head was subsiding, dissipating into a dull ache and an occasional vertigo. She was back in her dry clothes, sitting up against the wall with a swath or two of bandages around her head. A few cuts and bruises complimented the slight concussion, but other than that, luckily, she was not hurt.  The old woman said very little, just made sure Summer stayed put and in the small sheltering of rocks, and assured her from time to time that help was on the way. Summer had to admit that the spot they were in was nice and cool, thanks to the winds that tunneled through the narrow pathway of rocks. It made sleeping so much easier, and the girl was glad for the rest.  Johnny didn’t stop, even when the sun sank in the west. Wrapping a strip of cloth around the edge of a broken branch, he made a crude torch, using it as light. His pace was very slow, as to not miss anything along the way.  He searched through the night with no avail, finally dropping to sleep out of pure exhaustion. At next light, however, he made one discovery he was hoping for.  Dakota had fought against the river just like the two. Being he had the most strength, even more than Johnny, he was able to kick and keep his head above the water line for the longest. Either by sheer luck, or divine intervention, Dakota was able to slide past the rocks uninjured. Eventually, he came to a more shallow portion of the river, and worked his way to the shore in similar fashion as Johnny did.  Johnny almost ran over the sleeping form of Dakota, who had stubbornly stuck by the river bend, following his ‘gut feelings’ that either Johnny or Summer would cross his path. The tall Indian sprung to a crouch, however, at Johnny’s astonished cry of relief, only to stand and close the space quickly between the two in order to give a heartfelt embrace.  “I thought I lost you, my brother,” Johnny cried. “Thank the Great Spirit you are ok.”  “I am well, my brother,” replied Dakota. “Speaking of Great Spirits, my horse made it too.”   Johnny lifted his eyes to see the horse, not so far off, tied securely to a thin spire of rock from the canyon floor.  “We have to find Summer, Dakota,” Johnny said as they sat by the fire to eat a recent catch of fish.   Dakota nodded. “I know, brother, I know.” glancing up to the sky, he frowned at the gathering clouds that were forming, threatening to knock out the moon’s light.  “We had better only sleep a short time, Johnny,” Dakota announced. “The faster we find her and get out of this soup bowl we are in, the better.”  Johnny nodded, and turned in for the first shut eye in almost two days.  Both men awoke when dawn lit the sky, and they continued on their search for the missing woman. They did not go far, when a lone figure stood on a large boulder. She had grey hair, and wore a brightly woven blanket with the symbol of going home upon the back and shoulders. She wore the traditional dress of the Navajo.  A slim, elderly hand reached out towards the two of them, sweeping towards the right where the canyon walls stood.  Both men stop, glancing up at the statuesque figure. It is with this close distance and the tip of her head that they notice the decorative, beautiful headdress, that of an important person of the tribe, would wear. She smiled at both of the men, saying only, ’Now, you are safe and together once more. Guard each other from harm.”  With that, Johnny and Dakota gasped, as the woman’s figure disappeared with the clouds.  Both men looked at each other incredulously. Did that woman just disappear in the thin air? It wasn’t possible. Yet, it happened, and right in front of them.  Turning in the direction the woman indicated earlier, they began to make their way over. Within minutes, Summer’s sleeping form was discovered. Johnny touched her shoulder and Summer gave a great cry of relief to see both men, largely unharmed. It was there that she told them about the old woman, how she dried her clothes and kept Summer warm and dry. They told her about the old woman who pointed the way then disappeared before their eyes.  “A spirit guide,” the trio said in unison. “An ancestor’s spirit,” Summer added. “I believe it was the woman from the island. Rose-In-Sun, I think. We will ask Aunt Moon when we get back.”  “If we get back,” Johnny interjected. “I have no clue where we truly are.”  “Then, we better get going to try and find our way,” Dakota replied, rising to start striking the camp.  The surroundings had slightly changed thanks to the storm. The canyon stretched for miles and miles In a few directions. An endless bottom resembling a mazes and pathways to choose. One slight shift in the wrong direction could have a person wandering aimlessly for months, maybe even years. But the occasional appearance of the mysterious woman had them following a path off the beaten course. For three days, nothing looked familiar, and they were discussing weather they should turn back and try a different route, when the woman appeared before them and pointed up.  The trio obeyed, and in two days, they found themselves on the surface. A single curl of smoke lingered in the air from a nearby campfire. Hope in their hearts, they made their way towards it.  Big Jake was just returning, an animal carcass slung over his shoulder, and Moon sat, cross legged, outside the tent in prayer. The soft nicker of a horse had the woman opening her eyes, and days of worry and lack of sleep disappeared with a shout of joy.  Moon sprang upward and flew towards Summer, who had barely dismounted and turned around in time for the embrace.  Big Jake closed the distance between him and the camp with a surprisingly agile sprint, dropped the carcass in one fluid motion, and threw out his arms to close around both Dakota and Johnny’s shoulders.  “I thought we had lost you, boys,” Big Jake said in a ragged sob that tore from his chest. “I am overjoyed to see you alive and well.”  “The storm gave us a little trouble,” Dakota told the old man. “Sent us for a swim. We lost a horse, Summers ride.”  “Not nearly as important as if it was one of you” Big Jake told him, hugging the men once again. “We can double up until we get to the next town with one for sale. Won’t hurt anyone.”  Johnny and Dakota nodded. “Aye, sir,” Johnny added.  The group, now reunited, went to camp and set about helping to prepare the captured animal to be eaten. It was discussed that camp would be struck the next morning, and the final leg to the journey would begin toward California.  The clues were shown to both Moon and Big Jake, as well their discoveries of the symbols and what the boys and Summer thought they meant.  “Two clues. One goes forward, one goes back,” Big Jake repeated, nodding his head. “For one who does not know which is which, the confusion would be frustrating.”  “Causing many to abandon their search,” Moon added. “Clever indeed.”  “Also, the grave was designed to make it look like it was ransacked,” Dakota told them. “It was too easy to get too. think each place where we find clues are going to seem like they were made to hide the Rose itself.”  Johnny nodded. “Giving the appearance that maybe the Rose had been discovered. Only the most adamant would continue on.”  “How do we know, that the Rose hasn’t already been discovered?” Dakota asked.  “Because there is no peace, no gathering unity yet amongst the People of the Nations,” Moon replied. “It is legend, that when the time is right, and the Rose discovered, the nations will meld together. Peace, will begin to reign once more.”  They discussed their thoughts until late in the evening, and retired for bed. The stars witnessed a peaceful night for the party.  Next morning, as camp was struck and horses readied, Summer took a last look backwards at the Great Canyon. It was the audible gasp and the word, “Look!” that had everyone turning in the same direction.  The elderly woman, who had guided them through the canyon, stood, live as day, behind them. She had her bright blanket wrapped around her shoulders, and a sad smile was upon her face.  Moon’s voice shook when she finally found it.  “Sister,” she whispered, urging her horse closer. “Is that really you?”  The woman just smiled, and held out her arms. Moon was off the horse and approached the vision with cautious speed.  “Sister?” she asked again. “Rose-In-Sun?”   Summer blinked. She had gotten the ancestors name wrong. Rose in Sun was her mothers name...A gasp. It was her mother who had protected her, and showed them all the way out of the canyon. Moon looked at the other woman with tears of happiness, and went to embrace her. There was the brief warmth of an embrace, and then the coldness of an empty spot. Moon opened her eyes. Her sister was gone, replaced by the weight of the blanket wrap that was around Rose-In-Sun’s shoulders. It lay as if it was neatly folded.  Moon hung her head a moment, then turned, approaching Summer.  “This is for you,” She quietly said. “It is your mothers. A thank you, for honoring your ancestor at the canyon bottom.”  Summer was speechless. How a spirit could appear, reappear, hug, and give something solid? She was amazed. Opening the blanket, everyone gasped.  The intricate design showed a beautiful rose of gold, shadowed slightly by a mountain range, and illuminated by a brilliant sun.  “This is something I should truly cherish all my days,” Summer whispered breathlessly. “I shall wear it with honor.”  Moon nodded. “As you should.”  Big Jake approached the two ladies.  “And we will protect that honor,” he vowed. “ You are family, and we are one on this quest.” He dismounted, taking hold of both Moon and Summer’s hands, linking them together.  “That’s a promise.”  Dakota and Johnny also dismounted and joined hands with the group.  “We all promise,” they chorused.  Summer nodded.  “Then let us head to this City of the Angels,” she said.  “And may the Great Spirit bless us, as the hunt begins.” added moon.  It was an uneventful journey after that day, one that saw the group finally cross the border into California a few weeks later. A new horse was bought, and they party re-supplied themselves quite easily in the next town. Summer received a new horse, a tan and white beauty she named Desert Bloom.  Finally, the twinkling lights of Los Angeles lay before them. 
 
 
 The children were mesmerized as the old woman spun the tale, their rich imagination creating vivid images of days gone by. The group groaned at the end of the story, as the elder woman took a bookmaker and slowly closed the book. Her eyes were set upon them as she spoke.   “Los Angeles, the City of Angels, would prove to become a much different challenge than the desert and canyon had been,” she told them. “Could they stay focused, with distractions California had to offer? What about the enormous redwoods, and the legendary creature that lives there? Would he pose a threat? Or help them in their quest?” Her head turned to meet each and every pair of eyes that begged for the answer.  “Like the people themselves, you will just have to wait til tomorrow at story hour to find out.”   A collective groan filled the air, and the children instantly began to complain. Their lament was silenced by a gnarled old hand in the air.  “Patience is something everyone needs to learn,” she said softly. “Patience is something that those on the quest had to achieve. Sometimes, it was necessary. For only in the Great Spirit’s time, would clues be revealed. And, there is a last clue that was not yet discovered upon the blanket from Rose-In-Sun. A symbol was left behind on the canyon wall, that looked like this.”  A circle surrounded five figures. Two of them were large, the others just a bit smaller. Two of the figures had a line drawn to connect what would be the legs, almost resembling a dress. The other three, had an open spot between the feet.  Rozeanna knew the answer, but a shake of Grandmother’s head told her to be silent and let the children think.  “Family,” one little girl finally answered, after pouring through a little book she had. “The symbol was family.”  Grandmother nodded. “Yes. Very good. The symbol of the bond that was struck,” The lady paused a moment more. “There was another symbol, one upon the blanket. It was a warning, and one the group missed. A giant snake, one of a different culture. One, that was from a different culture. There were many incorporated along the journey,” The woman told them. “This one was of a monstrous snake. One that devoured men with her fanged mouth, and made the ground unproductive.”  A little boy answered. “Unhcegila,” he said, proud of his knowledge.   “Yes,” nodded Grandmother. “And she was lurking under the surface always looking for the opportunity to invade, and divide.”   A soft, tinkling bell sounded, and the children gave a collective groan once again.  “Eleven tomorrow,” Rozeanna told them, and the children scrambled to their parents, chattering excitedly about the story they were told and the anticipation of the next chapter.  As the children left and silence fell once more, Rozeanna took the precious book and placed it gently upon the shelf.  “I know you hunger for the remainder of the story,” Grandmother said in a soft voice ringing with understanding. “You too, must develop patience, to appreciate the full gift and honor you will receive.”  Rozeanna nodded. “I know. I just-” she paused. “Grandmother, what ever happened to the blanket that they cherished?”  Grandmother kissed the girl’s forehead. “Go to your room and prepare to study for future education,” she said instead, then turned to attend the duties of the beloved library her family had owned for generations.  Rozeanna rolled her eyes and sighed while picking up her book bag and walking to the doorway that separated the Library from home.  Cozy and comfortable, the two buildings were made in the plantation style of the old south. Strange design for this part of the country, but elegant non the less. Many artifacts abound behind glass and frames, from pictures of those now passed, to rare artifacts handed down through the years and, in some cases, centuries old. Other strange objects, not of her own culture but of many, also adorned the home. Such a collection of knowledge under one roof, weather a thing or a book, was a treasure to behold indeed.  Rozeanna climbed the stairs that led to her own room, and pushed open the door. The room was on the West side of the house, made to capture the beautiful rays of the setting sun. A prism mobile hanging in the window cast beautiful rainbows about her room. It was something that always took her breath away, when her eyes fell upon the bright blanket across her bed.  Gentle fingers caressed and traced the intricate weaving as the other hand slowly gathered the blanket into her arms.  “Thank you,” she said to no one in particular, as she pressed the precious gift to her chest. “I too, will cherish this always, and pass it down to my child, when they are old enough.  As the light of the sun gave way to the soft moonlight of the night, a coyote howled in the distance, and a soft, gentle rain began to fall.  
 